                                            AutoQuant: An Auditable Expert-System Framework
                                                for Execution-Constrained Auto-Tuning in
                                                    Cryptocurrency Perpetual Futures
                                                                              Kaihong Deng
                                             School of Modern Information Industry, Artificial Intelligence Program, Guangzhou
                                                             College of Commerce, Guangzhou, 510555, China
arXiv:2512.22476v3 [q-fin.TR] 7 Aug 2026




                                           Abstract
                                           Backtests of cryptocurrency perpetual futures are sensitive to execution
                                           timing, funding alignment, trading costs, and reuse of evaluation windows
                                           during parameter search. In high-friction markets, attractive results may
                                           therefore reflect hidden implementation choices as much as signal quality.
                                           Using BTC/USDT, ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT perpetual
                                           contracts, this study examines whether an auditable execution-aware
                                           configuration-selection pipeline can reduce performance overestimation and
                                           expose parameter fragility more clearly than naive one-stage tuning.
                                               This paper proposes AutoQuant, an expert-system-style decision-support
                                           framework for configuration selection. AutoQuant encodes strict execution
                                           timing, funding visibility, cost realism, and feasibility constraints as explicit
                                           rules; combines Bayesian search with two-stage screening across windows and
                                           cost scenarios; and exports deterministic artifacts with accounting-invariant
                                           checks for traceability. The resulting governance protocol selects and docu-
                                           ments configurations within a pre-specified signal family under strict seman-
                                           tics.
                                               Empirically, fee-only and zero-cost backtests materially inflate apparent
                                           performance relative to fully costed runs with funding and slippage. Two-
                                           stage screening does not guarantee higher returns; in the BTC anchor case
                                           and several replications, it more often surfaces lower-drawdown or less ex-
                                           treme alternatives under identical strict semantics. Same-budget optimizer

                                               Email address: 202312100202@xs.gcc.edu.cn (Kaihong Deng)



                                           Preprint submitted to Expert Systems with Applications                August 10, 2026
comparison, module and screening-policy ablations, funding-rule diagnos-
tics, inferential checks, cross-asset replications, and third-party replay checks
position AutoQuant as auditable validation infrastructure for configuration
selection under explicit execution and cost assumptions. The experiments
use small-account simulations under linear costs and exclude market impact
and institutional capacity constraints.
Keywords: expert systems, decision support, auditability, cryptocurrency
derivatives, perpetual futures, backtesting realism, robustness screening


1. Introduction
Motivation and background.
    The proliferation of cryptocurrency derivatives has fundamentally re-
shaped the digital asset landscape, with perpetual futures contracts emerg-
ing as a dominant instrument for both retail and institutional participants.
Traded 24/7 on global exchanges, instruments such as the BTC/USDT per-
petual exhibit high volatility, complex non-linear dynamics, and periodic liq-
uidity crises. The market’s microstructure introduces unique challenges for
quantitative strategy development, most notably through its intricate cost
structure. Unlike traditional equity markets, a strategy’s profitability is co-
determined by a mix of bilateral trading fees, periodic funding payments that
anchor the contract price to the spot index, execution slippage, and stringent
constraints on leverage and notional position sizes. The confluence of these
factors makes the journey from a research backtest to live trading excep-
tionally fragile. From an expert-systems and decision-support perspective,
the reliability of backtests in such markets directly affects how organizations
build, validate, and govern algorithmic trading and risk-control components
that may be embedded in digital-asset products, automated trading plat-
forms, and DeFi-style protocols.
    Within this high-stakes environment, the processes of backtesting and
parameter tuning are prone to significant bias. Common methodological
pitfalls frequently lead to substantial overestimation of performance. These
include look-ahead bias, which arises from the improper use of future in-
formation, and unrealistic cost assumptions, where critical factors such
as funding payments, slippage, and leverage constraints are ignored or over-
simplified. Furthermore, many strategies rely on manual, ad hoc parame-
ter tuning, yielding configurations that appear profitable in-sample but fail

                                       2
to generalize to out-of-sample data or to the unforgiving conditions of live
markets. This persistent gap between research and reality motivates the de-
velopment of an implementation-oriented framework designed explicitly to
bridge the divide between promising backtests and deployable strategies for
cryptocurrency perpetuals.
Scope and interpretation. The empirical scope is deliberately bounded.
AutoQuant is positioned as a configuration-selection and traceability proto-
col for a pre-specified signal family, with evidence from four liquid perpet-
ual contracts (BTC/USDT, ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT).
The cross-asset results serve as portability checks for the validation protocol
rather than broad market validation.
Paper organization. The paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 presents the
core methodology of the execution-centric auto-tuning and double-screening
framework. The related literature is then reviewed, followed by the data and
market setting, system architecture and implementation, empirical evalua-
tion, discussion of implications and limitations, and the final conclusion.
Reproducibility pointer and timestamp convention. All core evidence
in this manuscript is generated from deterministic machine-readable artifacts
produced by the pipeline. Appendix A lists minimal scripts and commands
to regenerate the reported tables and figures, subject to the data-access con-
straints described there. All date ranges are expressed in UTC and refer to
the bar-open timestamp used to index the OHLCV series. Under STRICT4H,
signals are computed at bar close and, by design, take effect only from the
subsequent bar.
    This paper addresses a narrow but practically important question: un-
der a strict 4-hour perpetual-futures protocol, does execution-aware, double-
screened configuration selection reduce the performance inflation and param-
eter fragility that commonly arise under naive one-stage tuning and simpli-
fied costs? AutoQuant is designed to answer this question in an auditable
way. Rather than treating execution timing, funding visibility, trading costs,
and screening policy as informal implementation details, it turns them into
explicit system rules whose effects can be inspected, stress-tested, and re-
played. Empirically, the study is anchored on BTC/USDT and extends the
same protocol to ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT as bounded
portability checks.
    From an expert-systems and decision-support perspective, this paper
therefore positions AutoQuant as validation and governance infrastructure
for execution-constrained configuration selection in cryptocurrency perpetual

                                      3
futures. The system encodes strict execution semantics, funding alignment,
cost realism, and feasibility constraints as inspectable policy, and exports
deterministic artifacts and accounting-invariant checks to support traceable
offline-to-live consistency. In high-friction perpetual markets, the central
claim is narrower: credible backtest evidence requires configuration selection
rules that are explicit enough to be inspected and replayed.

Contributions. The contributions are fourfold. First, this paper formulates
configuration selection for frictional perpetual-futures strategies as an
auditable expert-system-style decision-support problem in which execution
semantics, funding visibility, trading costs, and feasibility constraints are
encoded as explicit system rules rather than treated as informal backtest
choices. Second, it implements a policy-driven inference pipeline that
combines Bayesian search with a two-stage double-screening protocol
under strict t + 1 execution semantics and explicit cost-mis-specification
scenarios. Third, it introduces a traceability layer based on deterministic
machine-readable artifacts, accounting-invariant checks, and offline-to-live
consistency mechanisms, so that configuration selection can be replayed and
traced end-to-end. Fourth, through a BTC/USDT anchor case together with
cross-asset replications on ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT, it
shows how the framework exposes cost-driven performance inflation, window
fragility, and residual overfitting risk under a unified strict protocol.
Nomenclature and abbreviations.                 Throughout the manuscript,
STRICT4H denotes the strict 4-hour execution protocol used in the case
study; OHLCV denotes open, high, low, close, and volume bar data; TPE
denotes the Tree-structured Parzen Estimator sampler used in Stage I;
WFE denotes walk-forward evaluation; CAGR denotes compound annual
growth rate; MaxDD denotes maximum drawdown; DSR denotes the deflated-
Sharpe-style diagnostic used in the long-window analysis; and PBO denotes
probability of backtest overfitting.
Limitations of existing practice.
    While numerous open-source frameworks such as Backtrader [1], Zipline
[2], Freqtrade [3], and FinRL [4] have democratized algorithmic trading re-
search, they typically prioritize strategy prototyping over strict realism. In
many equity or low-friction settings this is acceptable if the user configures
the system carefully. The concern here is narrower: in high-friction cryp-
tocurrency perpetual markets, simplified defaults can yield backtests that
look attractive on paper but do not survive realistic cost and execution mod-

                                      4
eling. In official repositories and user guides, critical choices about execution
semantics and cost realism are usually left to the end user. As a result,
no-look-ahead invariants may not be enforced architecturally, cost models
are often reduced to fees with only partial support for funding and lever-
age constraints, and parameter search is easily decoupled from realistic risk
controls.
    These frameworks are not treated as flawed in general. The point is
that without strict guardrails, common usage patterns in perpetual-futures
studies can create a substantial illusion of profitability. Appendix A
illustrates the implementation burden with both a minimal Backtrader
raw-return semantics check and a stronger Backtrader event-loop replay
over the executed STRICT4H exposure path. These checks require bespoke
data plumbing, timestamp alignment, explicit funding inputs, consistent
fee/slippage/leverage constraints, deterministic export of per-bar return and
cost components, and full-chain accounting invariants. They are therefore
useful portability evidence for adapter-based traceability in generic trading
frameworks.
Why generic research frameworks are not enough in this setting.
The comparison with common research frameworks is not intended to ar-
gue that such frameworks are unusable. The point is narrower and more
operational: in high-friction perpetual-futures markets, credible evaluation
requires that execution delay, funding visibility, leverage limits, notional caps,
and per-bar cost accounting be treated as enforceable semantics rather than
as optional user discipline. The practical contribution of AutoQuant is there-
fore to reduce the implementation gap between a backtest that can be run
and one whose semantics can be checked and replayed.
    A more fundamental limitation is that much prior academic and practi-
tioner work remains alpha-centric. The main emphasis is usually on new
predictive signals or factors, while the validation pipeline is treated as a
secondary concern. Comparatively less attention is paid to the systematic,
automated, and robust generation and validation of the parameters that gov-
ern these signals. The machinery that transforms a raw strategy idea into a
vetted, tradable candidate therefore remains under-explored.




                                        5
Table 1: AutoQuant versus common trading research frameworks (feature ma-
trix). Entries indicate whether a feature is native, configurable, or absent (×). This
classification reflects the capabilities described in official documentation and common us-
age patterns, and is not intended as an exhaustive survey of all possible extensions.
                                       t+1         Scenario-grid    Bayesian      Full-chain     Guard     Perp-specific
Framework                Funding     semantics        stress         tuning       invariants     overlay    constraints
AutoQuant (this paper)    native       native         native          native       native         native       native
Backtrader [1]         configurable configurable        ×          configurable      ×         configurable configurable
Zipline [2]                 ×       configurable        ×          configurable      ×              ×            ×
Freqtrade [3]               ×       configurable        ×          configurable      ×         configurable      ×
FinRL [4]                   ×       configurable        ×          configurable      ×         configurable      ×



2. Methodology: Execution-Centric Auto-Tuning
   and Double Screening
     This section presents AutoQuant as an execution-aware decision-support
protocol for robust configuration selection. The emphasis is not on invent-
ing a new signal family, but on making the assumptions that govern evalu-
ation and selection explicit, enforceable, and reproducible. Concretely, the
methodology combines a bounded Stage I search, a Stage II double-screening
procedure under strict semantics, and a deployment-oriented supervision
layer that together turn fragile backtest choices into inspectable system pol-
icy.

Expert-system decomposition. For readers from the expert-systems and ap-
plied AI community, AutoQuant should be understood not as a symbolic rea-
soner for market prediction, but as a rule-explicit decision-support framework
for robust configuration selection. Its knowledge base comprises enforceable
operational rules: strict t + 1 execution, no-look-ahead funding alignment,
explicit cost and constraint profiles, and ex ante screening thresholds. Its
inference engine is the search-and-screen pipeline that evaluates candidate
configurations under those rules. Its explanation and governance layer ex-
ports deterministic artifacts, reconciliation checks, and replay-style super-
vision signals so that the resulting recommendation can be independently
traced and verified. In this sense, the contribution is methodological and ar-
chitectural: AutoQuant turns fragile backtest assumptions into inspectable
system policy.
    Figure 1 provides a high-level overview of the two-stage workflow and its
traceability interfaces, including window splits, scenario grids, and stable-
candidate selection.


                                                        6
Table 2: ESWA-aligned decision-support mapping of AutoQuant components.
  ESWA component AutoQuant realization          Decision-support / traceability output
  Knowledge base     STRICT4H        execution Declarative rules that prevent look-
                     semantics; funding align- ahead and enforce feasibility; explicit
                     ment;     cost/constraint cost-scenario grid and window seman-
                     profiles; screening poli- tics.
                     cies
  Inference engine   Stage I Bayesian op- Stable configuration recommendation
                     timization (TPE) + with robustness diagnostics across
                     Stage II policy-driven windows and cost-mis-specification
                     double-screening           scenarios.
  Explanation inter- Deterministic machine- Traceable artifacts for table/figure re-
  face               readable exports; ac- generation and backtest-to-live consis-
                     counting invariants; full- tency checks.
                     chain consistency checks
  Governance over- Guard triggers + invari- Run-time supervision signals and rec-
  lay                ant monitoring             onciliation deltas to detect drift and
                                                implementation inconsistencies.




Figure 1: AutoQuant methodology flowchart. Stage I Bayesian search produces
candidates that undergo Stage II double-screening; stable sets are supervised by a guard
overlay. STRICT4H enforces t+1 execution and no-look-ahead funding alignment.



                                           7
2.1. Algorithmic Summary (Pseudo-code)
    To make the end-to-end procedure directly reproducible from the text,
the pipeline is summarized as a minimal interface and pseudo-code. Inputs
are (i) a time-aligned 4-hour OHLCV series, (ii) an 8-hour funding-rate series
aligned to the STRICT4H grid, (iii) a fixed cost profile and a predefined cost-
scenario grid, (iv) a window split (Training/Validation/Long-horizon/Blind
hold-out), and (v) a Stage I search budget Nopt . Outputs are the selected
configuration, the backtest logs, and the exported machine-readable artifacts
described in Appendix A.

# Stage I: Bayesian search (train net return)
history = []
for i in 1..N_opt:
    theta_i ~ TPE(history)
    r_net = STRICT4H_backtest(
        data=Training, theta=theta_i, costs=baseline_costs
    )
    score_i = annualized_return(r_net)
    history.append((theta_i, score_i))
Theta_pool = top-K candidates by score_i

# Stage II: double-screening (validation for selection only)
for theta in Theta_pool:
    for scenario in cost_grid:
        r_net = STRICT4H_backtest(
            data=Train+Val, theta=theta, costs=scenario
        )
        compute monthly return, drawdown, turnover
select theta_star via filters and scenario metrics

# Stress tests (blind hold-out; not used for selection)
evaluate theta_star on Long-horizon and Blind hold-out windows
export tabular summaries

   In the implementation, the “export tabular summaries” step is backed by
deterministic machine-readable outputs, including configuration json, per-
bar ledger csv, robustness summaries, and invariant-check files that support
manuscript table/figure reconciliation and backtest-to-replay checks when
the companion data artifacts are available, as summarized in Appendix A.




                                      8
2.2. The Signal-Modular Parameter Space
    The framework deliberately treats the underlying alpha-generation logic
as a black-box mapping
                             f : It × Θ → St ,
where It denotes the information set available at time t, Θ the hyperparam-
eter space, and St ∈ {−1, 0, 1} the target position or trading signal. In the
STRICT4H case study, the core momentum signal is derived from the nor-
malized divergence between fast and slow exponential moving averages of the
4-hour close, compressed into [0, 1] via a smooth tanh transform and com-
bined with auxiliary mean-reversion and breakout channels. The details of
this construction are implementation-specific; the focus here is on the struc-
ture and constraints of Θ rather than on the full functional form of the alpha
engine itself.
    While the AutoQuant architecture is signal-agnostic, the specific hyper-
parameter search space Θ in this manuscript is optimized for trend-following
and mean-reversion families on cryptocurrency perpetual futures. Extending
the framework to high-frequency market-making or arbitrage strategies would
require redefining Θ and the associated cost-model primitives, although the
validation pipeline would remain conceptually unchanged. Importantly, Au-
toQuant does not attempt to invent f automatically; the novelty lies in en-
forcing strict semantics and providing an auditable selection-and-screening
pipeline for θ ∈ Θ.

                           1          EMAfast,t − EMAslow,t
                             "                                  !#
         mt (θmomentum ) =   1 + tanh                                .    (1)
                           2          σ(θmomentum ) EMAslow,t

                     Ct = wmom · mt + (1 − wmom ) · at .                  (2)


                                 +1,Ct ≥ τtlong ,
                                 
                                 
                                 
                      Signalt = −1, Ct ≤ 1 − τtshort ,                   (3)
                                  0, otherwise.
                                
                                

    Instead of enumerating implementation-specific variable names, the
manuscript defines the hyperparameter space Θ in terms of a small number
of interpretable blocks. The momentum and mean-reversion block controls
the EMA lookback lengths, volatility-scaling factors, and Bollinger-band
widths and tail quantiles that determine how quickly the strategy reacts to

                                        9
trends or reversals. The risk-control block specifies minimum holding times,
cooldown periods after exits, ATR-based stop-loss and take-profit multipli-
ers, and several exposure-smoothing and maximum-exposure constraints.
The Bayesian optimization stage explores Θ within fixed bounds chosen to
respect realistic leverage, exposure, and cost constraints.
    To mitigate adverse funding costs, the framework introduces a soft
funding-bias mechanism that raises entry thresholds in periods of expensive
carry. Let f rt denote the 8-hour funding rate aligned to the 4-hour grid
via carry-forward, and let τbase be a baseline long-entry threshold. For long
positions, the effective threshold is defined as
                                                                 
              τlong (t) = τbase + κ · max |f rt | − ϑbias /10000, 0 ,     (4)

where ϑbias ≥ 0 is an activation threshold and κ ≥ 0 controls how quickly
the threshold increases as funding moves deeper into the tails.
   The optimization process in Stage I is guided by a single scalar objective
dominated by cost-adjusted annualized return. Formally,

                        max J(θ),        J(θ) := rann (θ),                (5)
                        θ∈Θ

where rann (θ) is the annualized net return computed from the STRICT4H
net-return series under the Stage I window and the baseline cost profile.

Performance metrics. The primary performance metric, annualized return
rann , is based on geometric compounding of the 4-hour strategy returns over
the entire backtest period. Let Rtot denote the total compounded return over
N 4-hour bars, and let AF be the annualization factor (set to 2190):

                          rann = (1 + Rtot )AF/N − 1.                     (6)

Unless otherwise stated, annualized return is reported as CAGR in decimal
units. Maximum drawdown (MaxDD) is reported as the peak-to-trough eq-
uity decline over the window.

2.3. Stage I: Bayesian Auto-Tuning under Realistic Costs
    The first stage of the framework employs Bayesian optimization to ef-
ficiently search the parameter space. The implementation uses the Tree-
structured Parzen Estimator algorithm [5], as implemented in Optuna [6], to
guide the search.

                                        10
Why TPE Relative to Grid Search, Evolutionary Methods, and GP-BO. TPE
is selected because the search space Θ contains mixed continuous/discrete pa-


Table 3: Minimal STRICT4H hyperparameter summary (Θ) with default
bounds and fallbacks. Ranges correspond to the default Stage I Optuna search space.
“Default” denotes the fallback value used when a parameter is omitted.
Block          Parameter             Range (default)      Constraint / interpreta-
                                                          tion
Momentum       ema_fast              6–32 (12)            EMA span in 4h bars;
                                                          must be shorter than
                                                          ema_slow.
Momentum       ema_slow              20–96 (26)           EMA span in 4h bars;
                                                          ema_fast < ema_slow.
Momentum       ema_threshold         0.0005–0.0060        Entry threshold on EMA
                                     (0.003)              spread (decimal units).
Mean-rev       bb_period             10–30 (20)           Bollinger lookback in 4h
                                                          bars.
Mean-rev       bb_dev                1.0–2.5 (2.0)        Band width in standard
                                                          deviations.
Risk           min_hold_bars         1–6 (1)              Minimum holding dura-
                                                          tion in 4h bars.
Risk           cooldown_hours        0–8 (0)              Cooldown after exits
                                                          to reduce rapid flip-
                                                          flopping.
Risk           atr_period            0–30 (0)             ATR period in 4h bars;
                                                          0 disables ATR-based ex-
                                                          its.
Risk           atr_k_sl,             0–3 / 0–5 (0)        ATR stop-loss / take-
               atr_k_tp                                   profit multipliers; 0 dis-
                                                          ables.
Risk           max_exposure_abs      0–5 (0)              Account-level exposure
                                                          cap.
Funding        funding_bias_         0–10 (0)             Soft threshold before
               thr_bps                                    raising entry thresholds
                                                          under adverse funding.
Funding        funding_bias_         0–0.005 (0)          Threshold slope under
               k_thr_per_bps                              adverse funding.


                                        11
rameters, conditional blocks, and hard feasibility constraints. In this setting,
TPE is a practical and widely used sampler for conditional search spaces
and performs well in compute-limited regimes. By contrast, grid search
scales poorly with dimension; random search is a strong baseline under lim-
ited budgets; evolutionary methods can be effective but often require larger
evaluation budgets and more careful constraint handling; and Gaussian-
process Bayesian optimization is less convenient for high-dimensional con-
ditional spaces. Importantly, AutoQuant is sampler-agnostic: any black-box
optimizer, including genetic algorithms, differential evolution, or GP-based
Bayesian optimization, can be substituted if it proposes θ and consumes
scalar scores. Such a substitution would not change the strict execution/cost
semantics or the Stage II screening policies. The present manuscript there-
fore justifies TPE as a practical implementation choice rather than as an
algorithmic contribution. To assess sampler sensitivity, the empirical section
also reports a same-budget benchmark against random search, DE, GA, and
GP-based Bayesian optimization. That benchmark supports sampler substi-
tutability under the same strict evaluator; in the reported run, GP-BO finds
the strongest training-window candidate.
    In the BTC/USDT STRICT4H case study reported in this manuscript,
the Stage I search budget is fixed ex ante at Nopt = 40 TPE trials on the
training window. Annualized net return is used as the Stage I scalar objective
to keep the optimization problem simple and to avoid embedding additional
risk preferences into the sampler. Risk and fragility controls are instead
enforced in Stage II as explicit, auditable policy constraints. A key design
choice is that Stage I and Stage II evaluations share the same STRICT4H
execution and funding-alignment semantics; Stage I differs only in its role,
while Stage II re-evaluates a fixed candidate pool under additional windows
and cost-mis-specification scenarios.
Optimizer baseline. As a minimal baseline under the same STRICT train-
ing window and objective, the best-of-N curve of TPE is compared against
random sampling [7] in Table 4. This baseline is used as a matched-budget
diagnostic showing that the search component is not merely an ad hoc selec-
tion device. Broader optimizer diagnostics are reported in Section 6.
Compute budget disclosure. The dominant cost driver is the number
of rigorous STRICT4H backtest evaluations. Stage I runs Nopt ∈ {40, 120}
TPE trials on the training window, with one STRICT4H backtest per trial.
Stage II then re-evaluates a fixed candidate pool across a small cost-scenario
grid and multiple window segments. In the reproducible BTC snapshot, the

                                      12
Table 4: Optimizer baseline under identical STRICT training window. Best-of-N
objective (annual). Random values are mean±std over seeds.
                Budget N      TPE best     Random best (mean±sd)
                        10        0.0174        -1.0000 ± 0.0000
                        20        0.0362        -0.7832 ± 0.4848
                        40        0.1172        -0.7832 ± 0.4848
                        60        0.1334        -0.7832 ± 0.4848
                        80        0.1508        -0.6638 ± 0.4915
                       100        0.1590        -0.4600 ± 0.5163
                       120        0.1590        -0.3580 ± 0.6763


screening applies 9 cost scenarios to the top 40 candidates over the combined
Training+Validation window (7,262 4-hour bars), totaling 360 strict backtest
runs, plus a small number of long-horizon and blind hold-out stress-test eval-
uations. All experiments are CPU-only. On a representative workstation,
end-to-end runtime is typically hours to under one day per asset under these
budgets.
Supporting funding-rule diagnostic. To isolate whether funding-aware
alignment rules matter beyond simply charging funding as a cost, STRICT
execution and all costs are kept fixed, and only the funding-related gating
and bias rules are disabled. Table 5 reports the resulting change in perfor-
mance for a representative tuned configuration. The diagnostic tests whether
funding awareness can change the decision path itself, not only the ex post
PnL calculation. Because this single component diagnostic is not a broad
module-ablation suite, the main empirical claims do not depend on it.

Table 5: Supporting funding-rule diagnostic (GP-BO candidate). Costs and
STRICT execution are held fixed; only funding-related gating, bias, and carry rules are
disabled. The table reports component-level sensitivity.
 Variant          Train monthly geom Train MaxDD Val monthly geom Val MaxDD
 Full                     0.218             0.192            0.000           1.000
 NoFundingGates           0.219             0.192            0.000           1.000



2.4. Stage II: Rigorous 4h Backtest and Double Screening
    The candidate parameter sets generated in Stage I then enter a rigorous
double-screening stage. The goal is no longer to search for new configura-

                                           13
tions, but to determine whether seemingly attractive candidates remain cred-
ible once they are subjected to strict execution semantics, explicit funding-
visibility rules, and bounded stress scenarios. The Stage II engine is therefore
designed both to remove common sources of backtest inflation and to keep
the offline evaluation path aligned with live-style execution logic.
Strict t + 1 execution. A signal generated at the close of 4-hour bar t,
using only information available at that time, can affect position and profit-
and-loss only from bar t + 1 onward. This prohibits same-bar execution and
closes an important source of look-ahead bias.
No-look-ahead funding model. Funding costs are applied bar by bar.
Funding rates are treated as an external time series aligned to the 4-hour
grid via carry-forward, and the backtest uses only the funding values visible
at each bar timestamp, scaled to bar duration. The engine is not allowed to
backfill from future funding updates.
    To make the accounting explicit, let St ∈ {−1, 0, 1} denote the directional
signal computed at the close of bar t from It . STRICT4H enforces a strict
t+1 delay by applying an executed signed nominal exposure πt during bar t,
derived from St−1 after ex-ante caps, smoothing, and other fixed risk controls.
Given the close-to-close market return rtmkt in Eq. (8), the raw strategy return
is rtraw = πt rtmkt . Transaction costs are applied on exposure changes at bar
boundaries, ∆πt = πt − πt−1 , with fees and slippage proportional to |∆πt |.
Funding costs accrue on notional exposure πt using the aligned 8-hour funding
series scaled to 4-hour bars. The resulting per-bar net return is
                     rtnet = rtraw − Cfee,t − Cslip,t − Cfund,t .           (7)
All reported performance metrics in the empirical section are computed from
the resulting {rtnet } series unless stated otherwise.
    Stage II applies two validation streams to a fixed pool of Stage I candi-
dates; there is no additional re-optimization in this phase.
Held-out window robustness. Each candidate is re-evaluated across mul-
tiple overlapping rolling windows of fixed length (2,000 bars in the BTC case
study, stepped forward by 500 bars) that are held out from Stage I opti-
mization but may be reused within Stage II. This differs from classical walk-
forward optimization because the parameter set is not re-trained on each
window; instead, the same fixed configuration is applied repeatedly to assess
temporal stability.
Cost-scenario robustness. The same parameter sets are re-evaluated un-
der a bounded set of cost-mis-specification profiles. For stable-candidate fil-

                                         14
Table 6: Core STRICT4H symbols, units, and accounting bases. Unless stated
otherwise, returns and costs are in decimal units; bps inputs are converted by dividing by
10,000.
Symbol             Units / range         Meaning
St                 {−1, 0, 1}            Directional signal computed at the close of
                                         bar t.
πt                 unitless, bounded     Executed signed nominal exposure held dur-
                                         ing bar t, applied with a strict t + 1 delay
                                         from St−1 after fixed caps, smoothing, and
                                         other risk controls.
rtmkt              decimal               Close-to-close market return of the underly-
                                         ing over bar t.
Cfee,t , Cslip,t   decimal               Turnover-based trading costs applied at bar
                                         boundaries, proportional to |∆πt |; bps in-
                                         puts apply to notional turnover.
Cfund,t            decimal               Funding cost accrued on notional exposure
                                         πt using the aligned 8-hour funding-rate se-
                                         ries scaled to 4-hour bars.


tering, the framework uses a discrete sensitivity grid that varies taker fees and
funding multipliers (taker_bps ∈ {3, 4, 6} and fund_mult ∈ {0.5, 1.0, 1.5}),
producing scenario-aggregated monthly and drawdown summaries for each
candidate. This grid includes both optimistic and pessimistic perturbations
around a conservative baseline to make cost sensitivity explicit. As an addi-
tional stress test on selected configurations, pessimistic-cost scaling scenarios
are also reported that multiply transaction-related costs by fixed factors (for
example, 2× and 3×) together with a funding-off stress.
    Stable-candidate selection then proceeds in three transparent steps. First,
absolute robustness thresholds are applied to remove underperforming con-
figurations. In the BTC STRICT4H experiments these ex-ante rules in-
clude a minimum average monthly return, a floor for the worst scenario-level
monthly return, a ceiling on average maximum drawdown, and a cap on
position-switch density. Second, the surviving candidates are ranked by av-
erage monthly return in descending order and average maximum drawdown
in ascending order over the training-plus-validation regime. Third, the top K
candidates are retained as the final pool of stable BTC/USDT STRICT4H
configurations.


                                           15
   To make this policy transparent, Table 7 reports the exact thresholds
used in the stable-candidate filter. In the replication code these rules are
implemented as an ex-ante filter over scenario-aggregated performance sum-
maries followed by a simple lexicographic ranking by mean performance and
drawdown; they are not tuned post hoc on a per-experiment basis.

Table 7: Stable-candidate selection rules used in the BTC/USDT STRICT4H case study.
After filtering, the top K = 5 candidates are retained by sorting mean_monthly_true
descending and maxDD_mean ascending.
Statistic             Meaning                                Threshold   Role
mean_monthly_true     mean monthly geometric return          ≥ 0.005     minimum
                      (across scenarios)                                 performance
min_monthly_true      worst-case scenario-level monthly      ≥ 0.0       downside
                      geometric return                                   floor
maxDD_mean            mean maximum drawdown (across          ≤ 0.30      drawdown
                      scenarios)                                         cap
switch_density_       mean position-switch density (across   ≤ 0.12      turnover
mean                  scenarios)                                         cap


Metric choice note. Stable candidates are ranked using monthly geometric
mean, drawdown, and switching frequency because these metrics are directly
interpretable and less distorted by extreme compounding in high-volatility
regimes. Other stability metrics, such as Sharpe-, Sortino-, or Calmar-style
summaries, can be substituted within the same policy layer, but a systematic
comparison of screening metrics is outside the scope of the present study.
Stable-candidate statistics and aggregation. For a candidate parameter
set and a cost scenario s from the predefined grid, the net return series
{rtnet } is computed and resampled into calendar-month compounded returns
Rm,s = t∈m (1 + rt,snet
                        ) − 1. The scenario-level monthly geometric mean is
          Q


                      1 X
                                                                     !
             gs = exp     log(1 + max(Rm,s , −0.999999)) − 1.
                      M m
This value is reported as monthly_true = gs . The stable-candidate filter
aggregates these scenario-level statistics across the scenario grid:
                     mean_monthly_true = Es [gs ],
                      min_monthly_true = min gs ,
                                                  s
                            maxDD_mean = Es [maxDDs ].

                                        16
Position-switch density is computed per scenario as

                     switch_densitys = #{∆πt ̸= 0}/N,

and the reported summary is switch_density_mean = Es [switch_densitys ].
These definitions match the exported robust-summary files referenced in Ap-
pendix A.

3. Related Literature
    This section positions AutoQuant relative to three literature streams that
are usually studied separately but interact tightly in frictional perpetual-
futures research: realistic backtesting under market frictions, hyperparame-
ter search and selection bias in quantitative trading, and deployment-oriented
traceability and governance for decision-support systems. This organization
makes clear that the contribution lies less in proposing a new predictive model
than in connecting these strands into an auditable configuration-selection
protocol.

3.1. Expert Systems, Decision Support, and Auditable Pipelines
    AutoQuant is positioned as an expert-system-like, rule-based decision-
support pipeline: it codifies non-negotiable semantics and constraints as a
knowledge base, uses an inference procedure (Bayesian search plus policy-
driven screening) to select robust configurations, and exports traceable ar-
tifacts (Section 2.1 and Table 2). This emphasis is aligned with decision-
support objectives in operational fintech contexts, where governance de-
pends on explicit measurement, execution, and control layers rather than
on opaque “best backtest” reports [8, 9]. In this sense, AutoQuant is closer
to an execution-aware, traceability-oriented AutoML workflow [10] than to a
strategy-generation system: the signal family is fixed, and the contribution
lies in making configuration selection reproducible and inspectable under
strict t+1 semantics and cost realism.

3.2. Backtesting and Execution Biases in Cryptocurrency Markets
    Realistic backtesting is difficult even in traditional assets [11], and the
problem is amplified in cryptocurrency perpetual futures. The 24/7 trading
cycle and extreme volatility make data alignment and timestamp integrity
critical [12, 13]. Prior work highlights look-ahead bias, microstructure fric-
tions, arbitrage constraints, and liquidity fragmentation as recurring sources

                                      17
of inflated backtest evidence in crypto markets [14]. These findings motivate
strict execution assumptions rather than post-hoc adjustments.
    More specific to perpetual contracts, funding modeling remains a major
source of error. Recent work on perpetual-futures pricing, basis risk, and
market quality shows that contract design and funding mechanics can be
first-order drivers of both profitability and liquidity, so backtests that omit
or misalign funding can be materially misleading [15–17]. A complementary
systems-oriented review of perpetual futures across centralized and decen-
tralized exchanges likewise shows how exchange design and trader behavior
shape those mechanics [18]. Recent evidence also documents strong linkages
between spot and derivatives markets, including price discovery in Bitcoin
futures [19, 20]. Empirical work on modeling and forecasting perpetual-
futures prices for trading applications further underscores that data con-
struction and contract settlement mechanics matter for inference [21]. This
work builds on that literature by programmatically enforcing t+1 execution
and no-look-ahead funding calculations in the backtest engine, moving from
problem identification to a traceable implementation pattern.

3.3. Parameter Tuning and Bayesian Optimization in Finance
     Most quantitative strategies are highly sensitive to parameter choices.
Manual tuning and naive grid search are inefficient and can promote over-
fitting [22]. Bayesian optimization and related methods can navigate large
search spaces more efficiently [23].
     Random search provides a competitive and widely used baseline for hy-
perparameter optimization under limited evaluation budgets [7], and evolu-
tionary computation methods (e.g., genetic algorithms, differential evolution,
and CMA-ES) provide a complementary family of black-box optimizers with
different trade-offs in constraint handling and sample efficiency [24–26].
     In finance, Bayesian optimization has been applied to trading rules and
portfolio allocation, but a common limitation is that optimization is often
decoupled from realistic cost and risk modeling. Parameters that appear
strong in a simplified search environment can later prove fragile under real-
world frictions. This concern is closely related to classic data-snooping and
multiple-testing problems: repeated search over strategy variants or hyper-
parameters can induce selection bias even when each backtest is implemented
correctly [27–30]. The use of DSR/PBO-style diagnostics is therefore a ro-
bustness check and complements rather than replaces strict execution and


                                      18
cost semantics [31, 32]. The contribution here is to integrate Bayesian op-
timization with realistic costs from Stage I onward while keeping execution
semantics fixed during Stage II screening.

3.4. Risk Management, Guards, and Full-Chain Consistency
    A robust quantitative trading system requires more than a profitable sig-
nal; it also requires risk management and validation layers that remain consis-
tent from research to live deployment. Risk-based overlays, or “guards,” that
monitor realized performance and can reduce or halt trading are a familiar
part of institutional practice. Recent work on decentralized finance likewise
treats protocol-level risk controls and auditable accounting as first-class de-
sign objectives [33], reinforcing the view that infrastructure and monitoring
are integral to decision support and model governance.
    A parallel concern is the “full-chain consistency” between the backtest
environment and the live execution engine. Divergences in data handling,
cost calculation, or order logic can invalidate backtest results and lead to un-
expected live performance [11]. This work synthesizes these two concerns by
proposing a framework that not only includes a post-deployment guard but
also enforces a set of accounting invariants across the entire backtest-to-live
chain. This provides a formal, traceable link between theoretical research and
practical implementation, a critical but often overlooked aspect of financial
data science.

4. Data and Market Setting
    This section outlines the financial instruments, data sources, and market
assumptions that form the foundation of the empirical analysis. The study
places a strong emphasis on data integrity and the realistic modeling of trad-
ing costs, since both are prerequisites for robust backtesting and transparent
evaluation.

4.1. Instruments and Data Sources
    The primary instrument for this study is the BTC/USDT perpetual fu-
tures contract, with parallel replications on ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and
AVAX/USDT perpetual contracts using the same STRICT4H family and
evaluation scripts. The experiments use 4-hour OHLCV bars sourced from
major centralized-exchange perpetual-futures endpoints, with prices and vol-
umes constructed from exchange-level candle fields and cleaned using the

                                      19
procedures described below. In the anonymized replication package, the
BTC/USDT anchor series is implemented from Binance, Bybit, and OKX
perpetual data, and the ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT repli-
cations are generated through the same venue-recorded download and clean-
ing scripts for the corresponding perpetual contracts. The cleaned series used
in each experiment is a single timestamp-aligned perpetual-futures OHLCV
series per asset rather than a volume-weighted cross-venue synthetic price.
When more than one venue snapshot is available, the replication scripts se-
lect a single continuous per-asset venue stream after continuity and integrity
checks rather than merging prices across venues; the exact local venue/source
path is recorded in the regeneration configuration. The replication materi-
als provide regeneration scripts and local processed-data paths, while raw
exchange files are not redistributed. The dataset is partitioned into a Core
Sample (2019-09-08–2021-12-31, N = 5,069 4h returns) used for descrip-
tive statistics and core cost-accounting experiments, and an Extended Long-
Horizon Sample (2019-09-08–2025-10-14, N = 13,368 4h returns) used for
long-horizon diagnostics and robustness stress tests.
    Crucially, the dataset includes a synchronized time series of funding rates
extracted at 8-hour intervals, aligned to the 4-hour time axis as a step func-
tion carried forward between funding timestamps. The fallback is activated
only when a realized funding timestamp is missing or unavailable for the
relevant historical slice; in that case, the conservative constant funding-rate
assumption from the same trading-cost profile is used and the carry-forward,
no-backfill convention is kept unchanged.
    For ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT, the study uses the
same construction convention: one cleaned 4-hour OHLCV series and one
corresponding 8-hour funding-rate series per asset, drawn from the venue-
specific perpetual-futures records retained in the reproducible snapshot.
Data availability differs by asset: the ETH series spans 2021-12-31–2025-
11-24, while the SOL/AVAX series span 2021-01-01–2025-12-16. They are
evaluated under the same strict execution semantics and a conservative cost
family, using asset-specific fee/slippage baselines together with the Stage II
cost-sensitivity grid.
    In this manuscript, the label core refers specifically to the BTC/USDT
4-hour segment used for the naive-versus-rigorous cost and constraint stress
test. Separately, the BTC/USDT windowed experiments use explicit train-
ing/validation splits that extend through 2023-01-01, and long-horizon diag-
nostics extend through 2025-10-14.

                                      20
                 Table 8: Data summary for BTC/USDT 4-hour returns.
        Sample                     Returns (4h)   Mean Std. dev.      Min    Max

        Core
        (2019-09-08–2021-12-31)           5,069 0.00043   0.01615 -0.21046 0.14734
        Long
        (2019-09-08–2025-10-14)          13,368 0.00026   0.01309 -0.21046 0.14734



    Throughout the paper, date ranges are interpreted as half-open intervals
[start, end), so adjacent windows do not share bars. The following terminol-
ogy is used for BTC/USDT 4-hour windows, with analogous windows for the
ETH/SOL/AVAX replications:

  • Training window (2019-09-08–2021-01-01): used exclusively for Stage I
    Bayesian optimization.

  • Validation window (2021-01-01–2023-01-01): used within Stage II
    double-screening for robustness checks and selection, but not for
    Stage I candidate generation.

  • Long-horizon robustness window (2019-09-08–2025-10-14): used for
    long-run diagnostics and cost-stress tests, not for parameter selection.

  • Blind post-ETF window (2024-01-01–2025-10-14): held out from tuning
    and selection and used solely for post-hoc robustness assessment.

   All Stage II thresholds and filters are fixed ex ante prior to evaluation on
the long-horizon or blind hold-out windows, and hyperparameters, thresh-
olds, or selection rules are not modified after observing hold-out outcomes.
   Returns are computed as simple 4-hour arithmetic close-to-close returns,

                                            Ptclose
                                  rtmkt =     close
                                                    −1                               (8)
                                            Pt−1

where Ptclose denotes the 4-hour close price. Under STRICT4H execution
semantics, the position applied to rtmkt is lagged by one bar, so that the raw
strategy return at bar t depends only on information available by the close
of bar t − 1.




                                            21
Table 9: Mapping between evaluation stages and BTC/USDT 4-hour windows in the
AutoQuant pipeline.
Stage /        Primary role     Windows used                         Key settings
component
Stage I        Parameter        Training                             TPE;
(Bayesian      generation                                            Nopt = 40
search)
Stage II       Robustness       Training + validation                K = 5;
(double-       screening                                             WFE
screening)                                                           win=2000,
                                                                     step=500
Long-horizon   DSR and cost     Long-horizon robustness              cost stress
diagnostics    stress                                                2×, 3×
Blind          Post-ETF         Blind post-ETF                       post-hoc
evaluation     robustness                                            only


4.2. Data Cleaning and Validation
    The policy for handling OHLCV data gaps is conservative and designed
to prevent the introduction of artificial price data. The system does not inter-
polate or fill missing OHLCV bars. Funding-rate timestamps are treated as
a separate external series: when available, they are aligned to the 4-hour grid
using carry-forward between funding updates with no backfilling from future
updates; when unavailable, the system falls back to a conservative constant
assumption from the cost profile under the same carry-forward semantics.

4.3. Data Construction Protocol (4-hour OHLCV)
    To make the BTC/USDT 4-hour series traceable, the study adopts a
simple and explicit construction protocol: use exchange-provided perpetual-
futures candle fields as the primary price/volume source; represent each bar
by its bar-open timestamp in UTC; enforce basic OHLCV sanity constraints;
sort and de-duplicate by timestamp; run a strict continuity check at the tar-
get frequency; and construct the STRICT4H funding series separately as an
external input with an explicit fallback when realized funding is unavailable.
    In the unified codebase used for this manuscript, the data-fetch and merge
logic is implemented in lightweight scripts that support direct inspection.
The replication package includes scripts for fetching full-history K-lines, ag-
gregating 1-hour bars into 4-hour OHLCV, validating continuity and data
integrity, and generating or backfilling the aligned funding series described
above.

                                      22
5. System Architecture and Implementation
    This section summarizes the implementation choices that are most rele-
vant to the traceability of the empirical results under strict execution and
cost modeling. The full AutoQuant codebase contains additional production
components, including deployment utilities, exchange adapters, and moni-
toring dashboards. This manuscript focuses on the design choices that bear
directly on research validity: (i) reuse of the same STRICT4H signal and cost
engine across offline evaluation and live-style replay; (ii) explicit, reconcilable
accounting of returns and costs; and (iii) a post-deployment guard that is
intentionally separated from the optimization objective.

5.1. Three Evaluation Stages: Data, Optimization, and Out-of-Sample Vali-
      dation
    The workflow is organized into three stages. First, data and environment
validation performs the integrity checks in Section 4.2 and fixes a cost profile
and constraint set that remain unchanged during optimization and screening.
Second, optimization and screening implements the two-stage methodology:
Stage I generates candidates on a single training window under the realistic
cost model, while Stage II screens candidates across held-out windows and
cost-stress scenarios using the STRICT4H engine. Third, live-style replay and
risk control applies the same STRICT4H logic on a rolling window of recent
data to produce a target exposure and optionally overlays a guard for post-
deployment supervision. In this paper, Stage (iii) is treated as a traceability
pattern rather than as evidence of long-horizon live performance.

5.2. The Live Engine and Executor
    The live engine is implemented as a thin wrapper around the same core
STRICT4H strategy and cost logic used offline. On each update cycle it
recomputes the target exposure from a bounded sliding window of recent 4-
hour data and applies the same strict t+1 semantics described in Section 2.4.
The executor then maps that target exposure to exchange orders while en-
forcing the same leverage and notional caps used in the backtest engine and
logging fills and cash-flow components, including fees, slippage, funding, and
PnL, for later reconciliation.




                                        23
5.3. Full-Chain Invariants and Guard Infrastructure
    A set of full-chain accounting invariants is defined: mathematical identi-
ties that must hold, within a small tolerance, across the entire lifecycle of a
strategy instance. For any given parameter set, key metrics such as cumu-
lative exposure, total fees, total slippage, net funding costs, and total PnL
must reconcile between the offline backtest, live-style replay, and execution
logs produced by the same code path when such logs are available.
    Concretely, for each bar t, the system records the raw strategy return rtraw
and cost components Cfee,t , Cslip,t , and Cfund,t , and defines the net return
                     rtnet = rtraw − Cfee,t − Cslip,t − Cfund,t .                (9)
Full-chain consistency checks verify that these components reconcile across
offline backtests, live-style replay, and execution logs produced by the same
code path.
     The repository-level deployment-bridge evidence is a strict-t+1 code-path
parity check between the rigorous backtest engine and the live-style inference
wrapper. Across three independent SOL/USDT 1-hour parameter snapshots
over 2,000 bars each, the exported signal and exposure series matched exactly.
This is reported as internal consistency evidence for the offline-to-live bridge
rather than as evidence of long-horizon live performance.

Table 10: Repository-level strict-t + 1 parity snapshots (rigorous backtest vs
replay path). Values are intended as code-path consistency evidence, not as a live-
performance claim.
    Snapshot Asset / freq        Bars Direction match max |∆S| max |∆π|
    Trial 37   SOL/USDT 1h 2000                        1.0          0        0
    Trial 71   SOL/USDT 1h 2000                        1.0          0        0
    Trial 82   SOL/USDT 1h 2000                        1.0          0        0

    A guard provides a post-deployment risk overlay that monitors rolling
performance and risk metrics computed from execution logs and can issue
an ok/watch/kill decision. A “kill” decision triggers position flattening and
can optionally disable further trading until manual intervention. Because
the guard responds to realized PnL and risk states rather than to predic-
tive signals, it is treated as a safety layer that is conceptually separate from
the Stage I/II optimization objectives. This paper reports only limited of-
fline and replay-style consistency evidence and therefore interprets the guard
component as a traceability pattern rather than as a live-performance claim.

                                         24
5.4. Computational complexity and deployment feasibility
    To make the practical footprint of AutoQuant explicit, the analysis dis-
tinguishes the computational burden of Stage I search, Stage II screening,
and online deployment-style replay. Let T denote the number of bars in the
evaluation window, Nopt the Stage I search budget, K the number of candi-
dates retained for Stage II, and S the number of cost-stress scenarios. Under
a fixed signal family, one strict backtest pass is linear in T up to small con-
stant factors induced by the enabled signal channels and risk controls. Stage I
therefore scales approximately as O(Nopt T ), while the dominant Stage II
screening cost scales approximately as O(KST ) over the selected windows.
In the reproducible case study these workloads remain practical on CPU-only
hardware because the study deliberately uses bounded trial budgets, a small
stress grid, and a fixed candidate pool rather than an open-ended nested
search.
    The implementation is also designed with deployment feasibility in mind.
The same rigorous engine used for offline strict backtests is reused for live-
style inference, so the offline and online paths do not rely on separate strategy
logic. In the online wrapper, only a bounded recent history is retained, re-
peated polling on an unchanged last bar is short-circuited by a lightweight
tail-bar fingerprint, and funding inputs are aligned under the same visibility
rules used offline. This design does not constitute a claim of institutional-
scale latency-sensitive execution, but it does show that the proposed frame-
work is operationally feasible as a research-to-deployment decision-support
pipeline for medium-frequency perpetual-futures strategies under explicit ex-
ecution semantics.

6. Empirical Evaluation
    This section evaluates AutoQuant as an execution-aware decision-support
pipeline. The empirical analysis first compares optimizer behavior and com-
ponent ablations under the same STRICT4H evaluator, then examines fund-
ing and screening sensitivity, and finally tests whether the validation protocol
remains informative across additional assets, an auxiliary signal family, and
third-party replay paths. Together, these experiments show how explicit ex-
ecution rules, cost realism, and auditable screening change the interpretation
of backtest results in frictional perpetual-futures markets.



                                       25
Empirical roadmap. The empirical section is organized to answer six distinct
questions: how several mainstream optimizers behave under the same strict-
evaluation budget, which decision and screening modules materially affect
selected candidates, whether funding-aware decision rules matter beyond ex
post funding charges, whether selected configurations remain interpretable
under inferential and policy-sensitivity checks, whether the validation proto-
col is portable across several liquid perpetual contracts under identical strict
semantics, and whether a bounded auxiliary out-of-family strategy family
survives the same screening rules.

6.1. Experimental Setup
    The experiments use 4-hour OHLCV datasets for BTC/USDT,
ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT perpetual contracts, built
from the reproducible dataset described in Section 4. For the primary com-
parative experiment in Section 6.2, the core BTC sample is supplemented
with the extended 4-hour series, and three distinct, non-overlapping win-
dows are defined: an in-sample training window used exclusively for Stage I
Bayesian optimization, a validation-and-selection window used within the
Stage II double-screening protocol, and a blind test window used only
for hold-out robustness assessment. For BTC, the 2023-01-01–2024-01-01
interval is intentionally left unused so that the validation-era selection
window remains clearly separated from the post-ETF hold-out.
    For ETH/USDT, the study design is mirrored with a training window
(2021-12-31–2023-01-01), validation window (2023-01-01–2024-01-01), and
post-2024 hold-out (2024-01-01–2025-11-24), using the same STRICT4H con-
figuration family and evaluation scripts. For SOL/USDT and AVAX/USDT,
the same training and validation definitions as ETH are used, and the post-
2024 hold-out is extended through 2025-12-16.




                                      26
Table 11: Configuration naming used in the manuscript. The text distinguishes
baseline (a frozen reference from Stage I), one-stage (top-1 on training), and selected
two-stage (stable-candidate screening). “Naive” and “standard” are diagnostic stress-test
variants applied to a separate stress-test configuration.
Name in text     Definition                      Used for selec- Where referenced
                                                 tion?
Baseline       Frozen reference built from       No                Table 12, Fig. 2
STRICT4H       top-ranked Stage I parame-
               ters; evaluated across win-
               dows
One-stage      Best Stage I trial by             Yes (Stage I Section 6.2
(top-1)        training-window objective         only)
Selected two- Stable candidate selected by       Yes (Stage II) Section 6.2
stage          ex-ante filter and scenario-
               grid aggregation
Standard (fee- Diagnostic backtest with          No                Section 6.3
only)          taker fees only; same strict
               execution
Naive (zero- Upper         bound      with       No                Section 6.3
cost)          fees/slippage/funding
               removed (and optional cap
               relaxation)




                                           27
    To provide a point of comparison, the manuscript defines a Baseline Strat-
egy configuration. This is not a toy example, but a realistic production-
oriented baseline built from the top-ranked Stage I parameter sets for the
BTC/USDT STRICT4H family and then frozen for all subsequent window
and stress-test evaluations. It serves as a fixed reference configuration for
inspection and ablation.




      Figure 2: Baseline STRICT4H annualized return by window (BTC/USDT).



Table 12: Baseline STRICT4H performance by window (BTC/USDT; annualized return
reported as CAGR, %; window definitions follow Section 4). Values are reported from the
companion replication summaries described in Appendix A.
Window                                  Ann. (CAGR, %) MaxDD Sharpe Trades
Long (2019-09-08–2025-10-14)                      -24.09%      0.9536 -0.0738      4,814
Training (2019-09-08–2021-01-01)                   16.59%      0.6041 0.5233       1,027
Validation (2021-01-01–2023-01-01)                -56.43%      0.9174 -0.5913      1,549


    In keeping with the emphasis on interpretable and economically mean-
ingful performance metrics, Table 12 reports only normalized statistics: an-
nualized return, maximum drawdown, Sharpe ratio, and total trade count,

                                          28
reported from STRICT4H machine-readable summaries in the replication
package. The same outputs also contain raw total return and final-equity
metrics, which are treated as internal accounting checks and are deliberately
omitted from the main text because they are highly sensitive to sample length
and the arbitrary choice of initial capital.
    The Sharpe ratio is annualized from the 4-hour returns using the annu-
alization implied by the 4-hour frequency and assumes a constant annual
risk-free rate of 3%. Because 4-hour crypto returns are autocorrelated and
heavy-tailed, Sharpe is treated as a descriptive statistic rather than as a
parametric test. The analysis therefore focuses not only on absolute metric
levels, but also on their sensitivity across time periods and cost assumptions.
Reading guide for compounded return magnitudes. Depending on the
experiment, annualized return is reported either as CAGR in % or as CAGR
in decimal units (e.g., 0.10 = 10%). In high-volatility regimes, compounded
CAGR values can exceed 1.0 even under strict execution and explicit leverage
caps. Large CAGRs are therefore treated as diagnostic signals of sensitivity
to execution, window choice, and costs, and the interpretation places greater
weight on drawdown, stability across windows, and cost-stress outcomes.
None of the reported return magnitudes should be interpreted as statements
about institutional-scale deployability, since non-linear market impact is not
modeled.

6.2. One-Stage Tuning vs. Two-Stage Double Screening
    The first experiment is designed to test the core hypothesis of the paper:
that a simple one-stage parameter optimization is insufficient for identifying
robust strategies. Two distinct approaches are compared.
One-Stage Tuning: Stage I Bayesian optimization is run exclusively on
the training window to find the top-performing parameter set based solely
on its in-sample, cost-adjusted annualized return.
Two-Stage Framework: The pool of high-performing candidates from
Stage I is subjected to the full Stage II double-screening protocol, including
out-of-sample rolling-window analysis and cost-mis-specification scenarios.
The final selected parameter set is the one that ranks highest according to
the stable-candidate criteria described in Section 2.4.
    Table 13 makes the BTC/USDT anchor comparison explicit. Monthly
geometric means are reported rather than headline CAGR in the main table
because the latter can become visually dominant in high-volatility, small-
sample regimes. The comparison is diagnostic: one-stage tuning can de-

                                      29
liver stronger in-sample and validation return magnitudes, while the two-
stage protocol makes the return–drawdown trade-off, turnover differences,
and hold-out degradation visible under unchanged strict semantics. Buy-
and-hold is also included as a simple external yardstick on the same OHLCV
series.

Table 13: Direct comparison: one-stage versus two-stage selection under iden-
tical STRICT4H execution and rigorous costs (BTC/USDT). One-stage selects
the single best Stage I trial on the training window. Two-stage selects a stable candidate
via the ex-ante filter and cost-scenario aggregation described in Section 2.4. Validation is
held out from Stage I but reused within Stage II screening; Post-2024 is a blind hold-out
used only for robustness. The table reports monthly geometric net returns (decimal units),
Sharpe, drawdown, and trade counts. Buy-and-hold is included as a simple external yard-
stick on the same OHLCV series.
           Method        Window       Monthly geom Sharpe MaxDD Trades
           One-stage   Training               0.222    3.164      0.283      548
           Two-stage   Training               0.145    2.388      0.265      485
           Buy-hold    Training               0.067    1.530      0.563       —
           One-stage   Validation             0.051    1.238      0.318      423
           Two-stage   Validation             0.038    1.070      0.231      348
           Buy-hold    Validation            -0.024    0.005      0.771       —
           One-stage   Post-2024              0.023    0.845      0.220      259
           Two-stage   Post-2024              0.016    0.664      0.196      223
           Buy-hold    Post-2024              0.048    1.405      0.307       —



Interpretation relative to the BTC anchor case. The BTC anchor comparison
highlights the selection trade-off directly. The two-stage protocol trails the
one-stage winner on return magnitude and buy-and-hold in the post-2024
window, but under the same strict execution and cost semantics it selects a
lower-turnover candidate with shallower drawdowns in validation and hold-
out. This is the intended screening function: the protocol makes fragility
and selection trade-offs visible before deployment.
Block-bootstrap check (validation window). As a minimal inferen-
tial supplement that is robust to time dependence, the analysis computes a
moving block bootstrap [34] on the monthly return series for the validation
segment, reporting a 95% interval for the difference in monthly geometric
mean returns between the two-stage and one-stage procedures (two-stage
minus one-stage).


                                            30
Table 14: Moving block bootstrap CI for monthly geometric mean differences
(BTC/USDT validation). Monthly geometric means are in decimal units; ∆ is reported
as two-stage minus one-stage.
  Window        ∆ monthly geom (dec.) 95% CI (dec.) Block length (months)
  Validation                       -0.016 [-0.040, 0.008]                          3


Threshold sensitivity. Because stable-candidate selection relies on ex-ante
thresholds, the replication package reports a sensitivity scan in the repli-
cation package. Across reasonable variations of the monthly return floor,
drawdown cap, and switch-density cap, the selected trial identity and its val-
idation performance can change, highlighting that these thresholds function
as risk-control design choices rather than as universal constants. The stable-
candidate filter is therefore treated as a transparent, auditable policy rather
than as an optimized meta-learner. In the 3 × 3 × 3 grid (27 policy variants),
the selected configuration toggles among three trial IDs (52, 87, 108; each
selected 9 times), with the number of passing candidates ranging from 12
to 31. Across these policy variants, validation-window CAGR spans 0.332–
1.058 (decimal), Sharpe spans 0.844–1.667, and MaxDD spans 0.209–0.386.
Table 15 shows representative settings.

Table 15: Representative threshold-sensitivity settings for stable-candidate se-
lection (BTC/USDT). Thresholds are ex-ante design choices; the table reports the
resulting selected trial ID and its validation performance under rigorous costs. Annual
return is CAGR in decimal units; MaxDD is a fraction in [0, 1].
                                              Val
               Monthly MaxDD Switch          CAGR    Val    Val    Val
                floor   cap   cap   Selected (dec.) Sharpe MaxDD trades

                 0.003    0.25   0.10     87   0.332   0.844   0.386   438
                 0.003    0.30   0.10    108   0.572   1.070   0.231   348
                 0.003    0.35   0.10     52   1.058   1.667   0.209   467



    As an additional stress-test exercise, selected configurations are kept fixed
and extended into the 2021-12-31–2025-10-14 BTC/USDT 4-hour period,
including a blind post-ETF hold-out window (2024-01-01–2025-10-14). These
extensions are treated as post-hoc robustness checks rather than as headline
results, and they are not used for parameter selection or for the core claims
of the paper.


                                          31
6.3. Naive Backtest vs. Rigorous Backtest
    The second experiment quantifies the degree of performance overestima-
tion that results from extreme simplifications to the cost and constraint
model. For this purpose, the study constructs a deliberately optimistic
“Naive” configuration that holds the STRICT4H signal logic and t + 1 ex-
ecution semantics fixed but removes market frictions and relaxes capacity
constraints. Relative to the rigorous configuration, the naive configuration
(i) sets fees, slippage, and funding costs to zero; and (ii) relaxes leverage
and notional caps so that the same signal path can be evaluated in a near-
frictionless environment. This should be interpreted as an upper bound on
friction- and constraint-related performance inflation in this setting, rather
than as a representation of typical industry backtesting practice.
    The analysis next isolates the impact of cost modeling itself. For this
purpose, it takes a separate STRICT4H configuration used specifically
for this stress test and evaluates it under a ladder of increasingly optimistic
assumptions on the BTC/USDT core sample. The rigorous variant uses the
full realistic trading-cost profile under strict t + 1 execution. The standard
variant keeps strict execution but includes fees only. The naive variant re-
moves fees, slippage, and funding to form a zero-cost upper bound. Because
cost-aware channels depend on the cost and funding inputs, the realized trade
sequence and thus the trade count can differ across variants even when the
hyperparameters are fixed.

Table 16: Cost ablation ladder for the naive-versus-rigorous stress test
(BTC/USDT core sample). Fixed parameters; the realized trade sequence may differ
across variants. Annual return is reported as CAGR in decimal units. Values may exceed
1.0 under compounding and should be interpreted as a diagnostic of cost sensitivity rather
than as a scalability claim. Market impact is not modeled.
Variant                                Ann. (CAGR, dec.) Sharpe MaxDD Trades
Rigorous (fees+slippage+funding)                       2.726    2.049      0.265      636
Standard (fee-only)                                    4.308    2.506      0.262      636
Naive (zero-cost, upper bound)                         5.225    2.711      0.260      535


    Table 16 quantifies how optimistic cost simplifications inflate reported
performance for this fixed stress-test configuration. Even a fee-only “stan-
dard” backtest can overstate performance relative to a fully costed run that
includes slippage and funding, and removing all costs provides an additional


                                           32
optimistic upper bound. The table is reconciled to the companion cost-
accounting ablation table in the replication materials, but it is used only as
a diagnostic cost-sensitivity ladder. These results are treated as diagnostic
baselines rather than as evidence of scalable profitability.

6.4. Robustness and Cross-Asset Replication
    The final set of experiments evaluates the robustness of the parameter sets
identified by the full two-stage framework under alternative conditions and
across additional assets. First, the one-stage versus two-stage comparison
is repeated on ETH/USDT using the same STRICT4H family and identical
execution and cost semantics. Similar to the BTC anchor case, the two-
stage selection makes the trade-offs explicit under unchanged semantics: the
selected candidate uses far fewer trades and smaller drawdowns in two of the
three windows, while the one-stage top-1 retains higher return magnitude.
This supports pipeline-level portability of the screening mechanism across
two liquid perpetual contracts.

Table 17: Direct comparison: one-stage versus two-stage selection under iden-
tical STRICT4H execution and rigorous costs (ETH/USDT). The table reports
monthly geometric net returns (decimal units), Sharpe, drawdown, and trade counts.
Method                 Window       Monthly geom (dec.) Sharpe MaxDD Trades
One-stage (top-1)      Training                   0.233   3.009     0.317    2112
Two-stage (selected)   Training                   0.173   2.607     0.276     346
One-stage (top-1)      Validation                 0.085   2.157     0.186    2012
Two-stage (selected)   Validation                 0.046   1.368     0.201     457
One-stage (top-1)      Post-2024                  0.151   2.590     0.381    3880
Two-stage (selected)   Post-2024                  0.096   2.009     0.368     852


    Second, to probe higher-friction mid-cap contracts, the same protocol is
repeated on SOL/USDT and AVAX/USDT using stricter cost profiles but
the same strict execution semantics. The results illustrate the intended role
of double-screening as a fragility filter: the one-stage top-1 can exhibit ex-
treme compounding and large drawdowns, whereas the two-stage selection
more often shifts the choice toward lower-drawdown or less extreme config-
urations under stricter cost assumptions. The SOL/USDT case is a useful
counterpoint because the two-stage candidate also improves several return
metrics; this is treated as a market- and candidate-specific outcome rather


                                        33
than a general rule. The extreme AVAX/USDT one-stage compounding is
interpreted as a volatility and fragility diagnostic under linear costs.
    Third, to test portability beyond a single contract, an ETH-trained
STRICT4H aggressive configuration is evaluated on BTC/USDT over the
overlapping window. Table 19 reports the key summary metrics under
consistent rigorous trading-cost profiles, and Figure 3 visualizes annual
return and maximum drawdown for the in-sample (ETH) and cross-asset
(BTC) evaluations. The exercise is a diagnostic portability check under
identical accounting and execution semantics.




Figure 3: Cross-asset robustness of the ETH-trained STRICT4H aggressive configuration
evaluated on ETH/USDT (in-sample) and BTC/USDT (cross-asset) over the overlapping
data window.


6.5. Auxiliary Out-of-Family Check
    To test whether the validation protocol remains informative outside the
main STRICT4H family, the study includes one auxiliary BTC/USDT 4h
experiment based on a long-only volatility-momentum family. The check
preserves the same train, validation, and post-2024 window logic, applies the
same strict execution and cost semantics, and evaluates candidates under
the same Stage II threshold style used in the BTC case study. For this
supplementary check, a deterministic 120-trial Stage I search budget is used,

                                         34
Table 18: Direct comparison on mid-cap contracts under stricter cost profiles
(SOL/USDT and AVAX/USDT). The table reports monthly geometric net returns
(decimal units), Sharpe, drawdown, and trade counts.
Asset        Method                 Window Monthly geom (dec.) Sharpe MaxDD Trades
SOL/USDT     One-stage (top-1)     Training              0.141    2.625   0.319   1567
SOL/USDT     Two-stage (selected) Training               0.124    3.013   0.152   1605
SOL/USDT     One-stage (top-1)    Validation             0.227    3.398   0.239   1596
SOL/USDT     Two-stage (selected) Validation             0.362    4.208   0.242   1653
SOL/USDT     One-stage (top-1)    Post-2024              0.066    1.747   0.243   3295
SOL/USDT     Two-stage (selected) Post-2024              0.068    2.301   0.195   3450
AVAX/USDT One-stage (top-1)     Training                 0.479    3.239   0.795   2063
AVAX/USDT Two-stage (selected) Training                  0.091    4.856   0.055   1739
AVAX/USDT One-stage (top-1)    Validation                0.572    3.851   0.621   1908
AVAX/USDT Two-stage (selected) Validation                0.087    4.185   0.096   1118
AVAX/USDT One-stage (top-1)    Post-2024                 0.797    4.407   0.607   4158
AVAX/USDT Two-stage (selected) Post-2024                 0.094    3.994   0.142   3663


Table 19: ETH STRICT4H cross-asset performance under consistent realistic trading-cost
profiles for ETH and BTC over the overlapping data window (annual return reported as
CAGR in %).
Strategy                                        Train Eval Ann. (%) MaxDD Trades
ETH STRICT4H aggressive v1                      ETH ETH           0.44%   0.150   3,100
ETH STRICT4H aggressive v1                      ETH BTC          -0.17%   0.089   3,403


and the top-30 candidates were screened over the same 3 × 3 taker/funding
scenario grid. Under this larger auxiliary search, one candidate passed the
pre-registered Stage II thresholds.
    The auxiliary results clarify protocol behavior outside the main family
in two ways. First, the one-stage top-1 candidate looked attractive in the
training window but collapsed on validation, showing the same overfitting
risk that motivated the double-screening protocol in the main BTC study.
Second, one candidate did pass the Stage II acceptance thresholds under the
cost-stress grid, but the resulting configuration remained modest: its vali-
dation mean monthly geometric return was 0.0062 and its post-2024 annual
return was slightly negative. This auxiliary check gives bounded empirical
evidence that the protocol can be applied beyond the main signal family.
    To check whether the evaluator can accommodate optimizer choices be-
yond TPE, a bounded auxiliary optimizer check was also run on the same
auxiliary volatility-momentum family. Random search, differential evolu-

                                           35
Table 20: Auxiliary BTC/USDT 4h volatility-momentum family check under
the same strict screening logic. The one-stage top-1 candidate is reported alongside
the best Stage II candidate under the 120-trial follow-up search. Annual return is reported
as CAGR in decimal units.
   Candidate                   Window         Ann. return Monthly geom MaxDD
   One-stage top-1             Training            0.3046            0.0225      0.193
   One-stage top-1             Validation          0.0000            0.0000      1.000
   One-stage top-1             Post-2024           0.1469            0.0112      0.154
   Best Stage II candidate Training                 0.0197           0.0016      0.102
   Best Stage II candidate Validation               0.0772           0.0062      0.061
   Best Stage II candidate Post-2024               -0.0052          -0.0004      0.100


tion (DE), a simple genetic algorithm (GA), and Gaussian-process Bayesian
optimization (GP-BO) were each given 18 strict train-window evaluations
and were then evaluated on the validation and post-2024 windows under the
same cost profile. Table 21 shows that alternative black-box optimizers can
be routed through the same STRICT4H evaluator. It also shows that sev-
eral methods find train-window candidates whose validation behavior is weak
or degenerate, which is precisely the kind of fragility the screening layer is
designed to expose.

Table 21: Bounded auxiliary optimizer check on the BTC/USDT 4h volatility-
momentum family. All methods use the same STRICT4H train-window objective and
the same low evaluation budget. The table reports bounded substitutability evidence.
  Method      Eval. Best train Val ann. Val MaxDD Post ann. Post MaxDD
  Random         18      0.1832      0.0241         0.0243     -0.0003           0.0944
  DE             18      0.0992     -0.0006         0.1460      0.0688           0.0977
  GA             18      0.1579      0.0000         1.0000      0.1890           0.2195
  GP-BO          18      0.1352      0.0000         1.0000      0.2002           0.1904


6.6. Main-Family Optimizer Comparison and Component Diagnostics
    The auxiliary optimizer check is complemented by a same-budget bench-
mark on the main BTC/USDT STRICT4H family. TPE, random search, DE,
a simple GA, and GP-based Bayesian optimization were routed through the
same shared parameter space, objective, cost profile, and 60-evaluation bud-
get. Table 22 reports sampler-comparison evidence: in this bounded run,

                                              36
GP-BO produced the strongest training candidate and the best post-2024
monthly geometric return among the five methods, while all methods’ best
training candidates were weak on the 2021–2022 validation window. This is
consistent with the paper’s core claim that optimizer output must be passed
through strict screening rather than accepted at face value.

Table 22: Main-family same-budget optimizer benchmark on the BTC/USDT
STRICT4H training window. All optimizers use the same shared main-family pa-
rameter space, objective, cost profile, and evaluation budget. Validation and post-2024
metrics evaluate the best training-window candidate found by each optimizer. Mon. de-
notes monthly geometric return, DD denotes maximum drawdown, and tr. denotes trades.
The benchmark is interpreted as bounded evaluator-comparison evidence.
      Method   Eval. Invalid % Train obj. Val mon. Val DD Post mon. Post DD Post tr.
      TPE        60      36.7    0.1870    0.0000   1.000    0.0159    0.545    437
      Random     60      66.7    0.0748    0.0000   1.000    0.0166    0.385    364
      DE         60      63.3    0.0450    0.0000   1.000   -0.0151    0.427    203
      GA         60      28.3    0.0498    0.0000   1.000   -0.0003    0.356   2204
      GP-BO      60      45.0    0.2184    0.0000   1.000    0.0400    0.291    867



    Selected decision and execution modules were then disabled on the best
main-family candidate returned by each optimizer. Table 23 reports the post-
2024 effect on the GP-BO candidate and the median effect across the five
optimizer-selected candidates. Disabling the ADX/regime gate substantially
increased drawdown and turnover; disabling confirmation and turnover con-
trols increased switching; disabling signal pre-averaging reduced post-2024
monthly return in the median candidate. Funding-rule removal was near-
neutral in the median post-2024 comparison, although it changed the indi-
vidual GP-BO candidate’s return and drawdown. The module ablation is
therefore interpreted as component-level diagnostic evidence.
    Finally, alternative Stage II policies were applied to the same valid top-
20 main-family trial pool. Table 24 varies the rolling step size, threshold
strictness, and cost-grid inclusion while keeping the candidate pool fixed.
No candidate passed even under the relaxed threshold or the no-cost-grid
variant, indicating that the same-budget optimizer candidates remain weak
selections under the paper’s stability policy.




                                           37
Table 23: Module ablation on the main-family benchmark candidates. The table
shows the post-2024 effect on the GP-BO best training candidate and, for ablated variants,
the median post-2024 change across the five optimizer-selected candidates. Mon. denotes
monthly geometric return, DD denotes maximum drawdown, tr. denotes trades, and sw.
denotes switch density. Positive ∆DD means larger drawdown. The experiment is a
bounded component diagnostic, not a universal component ranking.
           Variant         GP mon. GP DD GP tr. Med. ∆mon. Med. ∆DD Med. ∆sw.
           Full                0.0400    0.291    867             –          –          –
           NoFunding           0.0490    0.231    867      +0.0000     +0.000     -0.0005
           NoPreAvg            0.0129    0.181    660       -0.0197     -0.161    -0.0123
           NoRegime            0.0256    0.848   3643       -0.0045    +0.443    +0.1283
           NoConfirmTurn       0.0413    0.303   3567      +0.0025     +0.013    +0.1089
           NoBoostStruct       0.0400    0.291    867      +0.0000     +0.000    +0.0000




Table 24: Stage-II rolling-step and screening-threshold ablation. Each policy
screens the same valid main-family trial pool over the validation window. The base policy
uses 2,000-bar rolling windows stepped by 500 bars and the ex-ante thresholds in Table 7.
  Policy         Step Scen. Pass Mean thr. Min thr. MaxDD cap Switch cap Top pass monthly
  Base          500        9     0      0.0050    0.0000        0.30      0.12              –
  Step 250      250        9     0      0.0050    0.0000        0.30      0.12              –
  Step 1000    1000        9     0      0.0050    0.0000        0.30      0.12              –
  Relaxed       500        9     0      0.0030   -0.0020        0.40      0.18              –
  Strict        500        9     0      0.0075    0.0020        0.25      0.08              –
  No cost grid 500         1     0      0.0050    0.0000        0.30      0.12              –




                                                  38
7. Discussion
    This section interprets the empirical evidence as decision-support evi-
dence for execution-aware configuration selection. The discussion focuses on
what the experiments imply about execution realism, configuration fragility,
residual overfitting risk, and the practical boundaries of deployment-oriented
decision support in perpetual futures.

Interpretation of the empirical contribution. These experiments should there-
fore be read as evidence about the behavior of an execution-aware validation
protocol. The contribution is not a new alpha engine; it is a disciplined
way to show when apparent profitability depends on optimistic execution
assumptions, fragile window selection, or insufficiently explicit governance of
configuration choice.

Scope boundaries and limitations. This manuscript emphasizes five scope
limits. First, the optimizer evidence is bounded: although the paper reports
a same-budget comparison across TPE, random search, DE, GA, and GP-
based Bayesian optimization, the result is a bounded single-study diagnostic
rather than a universal optimizer ranking. Second, although the manuscript
documents an explicit OHLCV and funding-construction protocol, exchange-
specific data-construction choices can still affect perpetual-futures studies
and remain a valid target for future data-pipeline checks. Third, the trading-
cost model is linear in turnover; nonlinear market impact and venue-specific
liquidity constraints are left to future execution models. Fourth, the core
evidence remains restricted to a bounded strategy family and a small set
of liquid perpetual contracts; the cross-asset results, module checks, and
one auxiliary out-of-family check are portability and fragility diagnostics for
the protocol. Fifth, although the implementation includes third-party re-
play checks, a local Freqtrade adapter backtest, deployment-oriented parity
checks, and guard-based supervision, broader third-party integrations and
production exchange deployment remain future work.

Protocol portability beyond one signal family. Architecturally, AutoQuant is
signal-modular: the strict engine consumes a parameterized signal-and-risk
specification, while the traceability protocol operates at the level of execution
semantics, cost realism, screening policy, and artifact traceability. For this
reason, the contribution is not limited to one specific momentum rule. At the
implementation level, the codebase exposes multiple signal blocks, including

                                       39
momentum, mean-reversion, breakout, volatility-momentum, structural, and
factor-style components, under the same strict execution engine. Repository
tests confirm the narrower point that the same runtime can ingest differ-
ent parameter branches, including momentum, mean-reversion, and blended
multi-leg specifications, without changing the underlying execution seman-
tics. To probe this point empirically, a bounded BTC/USDT 4h auxiliary
check using a long-only volatility-momentum family under the same window
logic and Stage II screening rules was also run; the one-stage top-1 candi-
date collapsed on validation and one candidate passed the Stage II accep-
tance thresholds. This shows that the protocol can expose fragility outside
the main signal family while keeping strategy-family generality as a future
empirical question. Implementation-level checks therefore support protocol
portability within the reported scope.

Residual selection-bias diagnostics. Even under strict execution semantics
and explicit cost modeling, repeated search over candidate configurations
leaves non-trivial multiple-testing risk. The manuscript therefore reports two
selection-bias diagnostics from the reproducible BTC/USDT anchor snap-
shot. First, following the spirit of [31], a DSR-style check based on the
long-window Sharpe and an effective trial-count range Ntotal ∈ [360, 3240]
is consistent with non-negligible search risk once repeated trials are taken
into account. Second, a CSCV/PBO diagnostic [32] computed on the top-
40 Stage I candidate pool yields PBO = 0.586 under an 8-segment design
with 70 combinatorial splits. These diagnostics reinforce the manuscript’s
emphasis on traceability and bias control under explicit execution rules.

Optimizer scope. Although TPE is justified as a practical sampler for con-
ditional mixed search spaces, the optimizer evidence remains bounded. In
addition to the original TPE-versus-random comparison, this paper includes
a main-family same-budget comparison with DE, a simple GA, and GP-based
Bayesian optimization. This broader check shows heterogeneous optimizer
behavior: GP-BO is strongest in the reported training-window run, while
the resulting candidates do not satisfy the validation screening policies. Ac-
cordingly, the contribution lies in the execution- and traceability-preserving
configuration-selection pipeline, not in an optimizer-ranking result.

Data-construction disclosure. Section 4 documents the core OHLCV con-
struction protocol, including UTC bar-open indexing, sanity filtering, de-
duplication, and continuity validation, and points to the scripts used to re-

                                     40
build long-window 4-hour candles and funding baselines. Nevertheless, sev-
eral exchange-specific data-construction choices can still matter in perpetual
markets, including whether a venue’s OHLCV reflects last-trade, mark, or
index pricing, cross-venue aggregation rules, and the handling of contract-
specification changes. These details remain a natural target for future data-
construction work.
Linear cost model and position scaling. The cost profile used in the
STRICT4H experiments assumes an initial capital of 10,000 USDT, a
maximum leverage of 5×, and a notional cap of 50,000 USDT. The reported
annualized returns and Sharpe ratios should therefore be interpreted as
describing small- to mid-sized positions in a frictional but non-impact world.
The model does not include non-linear market impact or exchange-specific
liquidity constraints, so the same percentage returns should not be extrap-
olated to institutional asset levels. Consistent with this view, very large
final-equity figures that arise in long synthetic compounding runs are treated
as accounting artifacts and deliberately omitted from the main tables. More
broadly, the cost model is linear in turnover and does not capture non-linear
impact; incorporating impact-aware execution models is outside the scope
of the current manuscript.
Alpha logic constraints. While the framework is signal-modular at the archi-
tectural level, integrating highly complex, non-parametric machine-learning
models would require additional engineering. The current auto-tuning
pipeline is not designed to manage the separate training, validation, and
GPU resource management loops required by such models, and the empirical
evidence in this paper remains centered on a STRICT4H momentum-style
family on BTC/USDT, ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT, plus
one auxiliary BTC/USDT 4h volatility-momentum family check that yielded
one Stage II-stable candidate in the larger follow-up search. Relatedly,
automated candidate generation such as factor-library composition, template
expansion, or symbolic regression is outside the scope of this manuscript.
Such generators can still be evaluated as upstream modules under the same
strict t+1 semantics, cost modeling, and multi-window screening used here.

8. Conclusion and Future Work
   This paper introduced a systematic framework for the auto-tuning
and multi-stage validation of quantitative strategies for cryptocurrency

                                     41
perpetual futures. Using BTC/USDT as the anchor case and replications
on ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT, the analysis showed that
backtests which neglect realistic costs or permit subtle look-ahead effects
can materially overstate strategy quality.
    The primary contribution is a structured two-stage selection pipeline com-
plemented by a post-deployment monitoring layer. Concretely, the frame-
work combines Bayesian optimization under realistic cost models, a double-
screening protocol using held-out and cost-stress scenarios, and an traceabil-
ity/guard overlay. The result is an auditable decision-support and governance
protocol for configuration selection under strict execution semantics.
    Across the four contracts, realistic execution and costs materially change
candidate rankings and reveal degradation on held-out windows. The non-
BTC replications provide pipeline-level portability checks under identical
strict semantics, and an auxiliary out-of-family BTC/USDT check further
shows that the same protocol can reject unstable candidates outside the main
signal family. These supplements broaden the evidence base and clarify the
empirical scope of the framework. By enforcing full-chain accounting invari-
ants and employing a guard mechanism, the framework provides a practical
research-to-deployment pattern for this asset class. That is presented as a
design objective supported by offline and replay-style consistency evidence.
    From an expert-systems and decision-support perspective, the practical
implication is that quantitative evidence in 24/7 derivatives markets should
be delivered as an auditable artifact: a complete specification of timestamp
conventions, execution semantics, cost and funding alignment, and window-
reuse rules, together with deterministic scripts that regenerate the reported
tables and figures. Appendix A therefore includes both full-chain consistency
checks and minimal external semantics replays.
Managerial implications. For practitioners building algorithmic trading
or risk-control pipelines in 24/7 derivatives markets, the evidence supports
four governance practices: treat execution semantics and funding alignment
as non-negotiable policies rather than optional backtest settings; pre-register
window semantics and selection rules to avoid hidden reuse of validation seg-
ments; maintain deterministic per-run artifacts for independent inspection;
and deploy lightweight guard overlays that monitor invariant violations and
reconcile offline and live-style replays.
    Finally, the numeric results reported in the tables and figures are ac-
companied by the unified codebase, anonymized replication materials, and
derived summary artifacts described in Appendix A, subject to the data-

                                      42
access and storage constraints discussed there. A central limitation remains
that the present cost model is linear in turnover. Future work should incorpo-
rate nonlinear market impact, liquidity-dependent slippage, queue-position
effects, and venue-specific execution constraints before drawing capacity or
institutional deployment conclusions.

Appendix A. Reproducibility, Code, Data, and AI Tools
     This paper places a strong emphasis on reproducibility and transparency.
The experiments reported in this paper were prepared within a unified
codebase that implements the backtest engine, Bayesian optimization
pipeline, double-screening protocol, and live-guard logic described in the
main text. For this manuscript, an anonymized replication package is
maintained, built from the same codebase, that provides the core 4-hour
datasets and/or scripts to regenerate them, together with configuration
files, derived summary artifacts, and helper scripts needed to reproduce
and check the reported backtests, validation procedures, and tables. This
package can be shared with qualified researchers on reasonable request,
subject to exchange data-licensing and storage constraints. The numeric
results shown in the manuscript are reported from simulation outputs and
derived machine-readable summaries so that the paper remains aligned
with the underlying experiment logs; where only summary-level outputs are
retained in the submission snapshot, the associated tables are treated as
bounded empirical summaries rather than as fresh full reruns.
     For the core tables and figures, the replication package includes determin-
istic scripts and summary artifacts that support regeneration or reconciliation
of the machine-readable outputs used to produce the reported results, subject
to the availability of the required market-data snapshots. A brief README
lists the commands, expected output filenames, input-data requirements, and
runtime notes. The package also includes a helper script that regenerates the
figures used in this LATEX submission.
     The replication snapshot includes selected derived machine-readable ar-
tifacts and supporting reproducibility outputs that are used to reconcile the
manuscript tables and figures. End-to-end regeneration scripts for the data-
dependent tables, together with optional third-party semantics replays, are
provided in the companion replication package; because full-chain logs can
be large, this snapshot keeps selected derived artifacts used in the paper
rather than every intermediate output. The auxiliary out-of-family check and

                                      43
semantic/funding checks are directly machine-readable. The one-stage/two-
stage validation rows and the cost-ablation ladder also have table consistency
checks against companion summary artifacts. Several other large historical
result tables remain traceable through companion summary artifacts rather
than complete local rerun logs.
Execution-semantics reproducibility checks. The repository also in-
cludes regression tests and consistency checks for the strict t + 1 execution
convention, cost accounting, funding visibility, and selected carried-forward
tables. These checks keep the manuscript’s empirical claims aligned with
the submitted tables and reproducibility artifacts. Same-bar t+0 sensitiv-
ity results are reported below as execution-semantics diagnostics rather than
selected-performance evidence.

Table A.25: Minimal reproducibility artifacts exported by AutoQuant. Each run
exports machine-readable files that support table/figure regeneration or reconciliation and
decompose net returns into raw-return and cost components. Exact filenames and schemas
are documented in the replication README.
Artifact (format)            Contents (examples)              Reproducibility purpose
Configuration (json)     θ, cost profile, window              Reproducible run specification
                         spec, seeds                          and provenance
Per-bar ledger (csv)     timestamp, signal St , ex-           Full reconstruction of metrics and
                         posure πt , rtmkt , rtraw ,          cost decomposition
                         Cfee,t , Cslip,t , Cfund,t , rtnet
Robust summary (csv)     window/scenario             aggre-   Stage II screening inputs and sen-
                         gates (monthly geom,                 sitivity reporting
                         MaxDD, turnover)
Invariant          check max |∆S|, max |∆π|, com-             Backtest-to-replay    consistency
(json/csv)               ponent diffs                         checks


Execution-semantics diagnostic. As an additional minimal check repro-
ducible from the replication snapshot, the appendix reports how performance
changes when the same 4-hour strategy parameters are evaluated under strict
t+1 execution versus a deliberately naive same-bar (t+0) convention. This
semantic sensitivity check is separate from parameter selection. Values in
Table A.26 are generated from the replication artifacts described above.
Batch semantics uplift (Stage I top-N ). To avoid over-interpreting a
single parameter setting, the appendix also reports a batch summary over the
top-N Stage I trials. Each trial is re-evaluated on the same hold-out window
under STRICT t+1 versus NAIVE t+0, with all other settings fixed. This

                                               44
Table A.26: Execution-semantics diagnostic (BTC/USDT 4h; 2022-01-01–2023-
01-01). Fixed parameters; only the execution delay differs: strict t+1 versus same-bar
t + 0. Annual return is CAGR in decimal units; monthly geometric mean is in decimal
units; MaxDD is a fraction in [0, 1].
      Semantics        Ann. CAGR        Monthly geom      Sharpe   MaxDD    Trades
      STRICT (t+1)             -0.221            -0.021   -2.413    0.221      30
      NAIVE (t+0)              -0.264            -0.025   -2.998    0.264      28


check asks whether same-bar execution systematically inflates performance in
the snapshot. For BTC/USDT on 2022-01-01–2023-01-01 using the top N =
30 Stage I trials, the median uplift (NAIVE minus STRICT) in annualized
return is negative and the fraction of trials with positive uplift is below
50%, indicating that naive same-bar execution is not a universal performance
booster in this setting.

Table A.27: Batch execution-semantics uplift (BTC/USDT 4h; 2022-01-01–
2023-01-01; top N = 30 Stage I trials). Uplift is NAIVE(t+0) minus STRICT(t+1)
in annualized return (CAGR, decimal units).
              N    Median uplift 25th pct 75th pct % uplift > 0
              30             -0.018     -0.361       0.033          0.367


Third-party semantics replay (Backtrader). As a minimal external
check of the strict close-to-close t+1 raw-return accounting, the same direc-
tional signal series is replayed in Backtrader under cheat-on-close execution,
and the resulting per-bar raw-return series is compared to the vectorized
STRICT4H construction. On BTC/USDT 4h over 2022-01-01–2023-01-01,
the maximum absolute per-bar difference is on the order of 10−6 and the
correlation is effectively 1.0, supporting the claim that the strict raw-return
semantics are not an artifact of a single bespoke implementation.

Table A.28: Backtrader raw-return replay check (BTC/USDT 4h; 2022-01-01–
2023-01-01). Raw returns only; costs and funding are disabled for this semantics-only
check.
                      Bars        Max |∆|          RMSE Corr.
                      2190 2.75 × 10−6 2.94 × 10−7 1.000



                                            45
Third-party framework replay benchmark. For external framework
comparison, a Backtrader adapter replay was also run on the main-family
GP-BO candidate. The adapter uses Backtrader’s event loop to replay the
executed STRICT4H exposure series and then applies the same fee, slippage,
and funding ledger used by AutoQuant. On the post-2024 BTC/USDT win-
dow, the maximum absolute per-bar net-return difference was 5.44 × 10−5 ,
with RMSE 4.68 × 10−6 and a return correlation effectively equal to one.
Across the top-5 main-family candidates and five rolling validation windows,
the rank correlation between AutoQuant and Backtrader replay metrics was
1.000, with maximum monthly-metric difference 3.14 × 10−4 . This supports
semantic portability when a custom adapter and explicit ledger are supplied.
Freqtrade was also evaluated with its local futures backtester through a pro-
grammatic signal adapter derived from the same GP-BO exposure path. The
Freqtrade run completed with 65 trades from 265 exposure changes, total
trade PnL of 137.87%, and maximum account drawdown of 16.19%. This is
reported as a framework-adapter benchmark with explicit adapter semantics.


Table A.29: Third-party framework replay benchmark. Backtrader is evaluated
through an event-loop adapter over the same STRICT4H executed exposure series and
cost/funding profile. Freqtrade is evaluated with its local futures backtester through a
programmatic signal adapter derived from the AutoQuant GP-BO exposure path. The
table reports an offline framework-replay comparison.
Path                Run status   Backtest    devia- Stability check   Scope note
                                 tion
AutoQuant           completed    reference          reference   top-5 native per-bar signal, ex-
STRICT4H                                            pool              posure, costs, funding,
                                                                      and net-return ledger
Backtrader          completed    max      5.44e-05; rank rho 1.000; custom exposure replay
adapter                          RMSE 4.68e-06      max      monthly with explicit cost/funding
                                                    delta 3.14e-04    ledger
Freqtrade adapter   completed    trade        PnL 65 trades from local futures backtester
                                 137.87%;      DD 265       exposure with signal adapter
                                 16.19%             changes



Runtime parity check. Beyond the synthetic and accounting-style checks
above, the repository also includes an automated strict-t + 1 parity script
that compares the rigorous backtest path with the live-style inference
wrapper on the same data slice and parameter snapshot. This check was
run on three independent SOL/USDT 1h parameter snapshots over 2,000
bars each, with exact agreement in the exported signal and exposure series

                                             46
(direction_match_ratio=1.0, maximum absolute signal difference = 0,
maximum absolute exposure difference = 0). This provides code-path
consistency evidence for the offline-to-live bridge.
    The historical BTC/USDT, ETH/USDT, SOL/USDT, and AVAX/USDT
perpetual data used in this study were obtained from major centralized
exchanges, primarily Binance, Bybit, and OKX. Due to exchange licensing
and storage constraints, the replication package does not redistribute raw
tick-level data. The replication materials therefore include scripts and
configuration templates that allow qualified researchers to re-download data
from original sources, subject to exchange terms, and to regenerate the
cleaned 4-hour OHLCV and funding-rate series used in the experiments.
Processed summary statistics and anonymized walk-forward tables can
be shared with qualified researchers on reasonable request, subject to
data-licensing constraints.
High-frequency guard experiments. As part of the broader project,
a series of high-frequency ATR-guard experiments on 1m–60m resampled
BTC/USDT data were also conducted. These auxiliary experiments are not
part of the main empirical results reported in this paper. Empirically, none
of the tested configurations delivered a clear improvement in risk-adjusted
performance once realistic fees and slippage were taken into account; most
settings either left performance essentially unchanged or degraded it by in-
troducing noise-induced turnover. These results are therefore interpreted
as context-specific evidence that, in the high-friction cost regime considered
here, a 4-hour decision horizon is more suitable than naive 1m–15m over-
lays, while recognizing that more sophisticated high-frequency designs would
require separate study.

Declaration of generative AI and AI-assisted technologies
    During the preparation of this manuscript, the author used OpenAI
Codex CLI in a limited assistive capacity for English copy-editing and tight-
ening of non-technical prose, and for drafting reproducibility and table/figure
traceability checklists. After using this tool, the author reviewed and edited
the content as needed and takes full responsibility for the content of the pub-
lished article. All experimental results, numerical findings, and conclusions
reported in this manuscript were generated and verified solely by the author
using the described codebase and exported artifacts. This AI tool had no
role in producing data, selecting configurations, or computing metrics.

                                      47
References
[1] Backtrader contributors, backtrader: Python backtesting library for
    trading strategies, https://github.com/mementum/backtrader, com-
    puter software. Accessed 2025-12-24 (2025).

[2] Zipline contributors, Zipline: A pythonic algorithmic trading library,
    https://github.com/zipline-live/zipline-reloaded, computer
    software. Accessed 2025-12-24 (2025).

[3] Freqtrade contributors, Freqtrade: Free, open source crypto trading bot,
    https://github.com/freqtrade/freqtrade, computer software.
    Accessed 2025-12-24 (2025).

[4] AI4Finance-Foundation, Finrl: Deep reinforcement learning framework
    for quantitative finance, https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundat
    ion/FinRL, computer software. Accessed 2025-12-24 (2025).

[5] J. Bergstra, R. Bardenet, Y. Bengio, B. K
    ’egl, Algorithms for hyper-parameter optimization, in: Advances in Neu-
    ral Information Processing Systems, Vol. 24, 2011, pp. 2546–2554, ac-
    cessed 2025-12-24.
    URL https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2011/hash/86e
    8f7ab32cfd12577bc2619bc635690-Abstract.html

[6] T. Akiba, S. Sano, T. Yanase, T. Ohta, M. Koyama, Optuna: A next-
    generation hyperparameter optimization framework, in: Proceedings
    of the 25th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge
    Discovery & Data Mining, 2019, pp. 2623–2631, accessed 2025-12-24.
    doi:10.1145/3292500.3330701.
    URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3292500.3330701

[7] J. Bergstra, Y. Bengio, Random search for hyper-parameter optimiza-
    tion, Journal of Machine Learning Research 13 (2012) 281–305, accessed
    2025-12-24.
    URL https://jmlr.org/papers/v13/bergstra12a.html

[8] T. Philippon, The fintech opportunity, Tech. Rep. w22476, National
    Bureau of Economic Research (2016). doi:10.3386/w22476.



                                    48
 [9] P. Gomber, J.-A. Koch, M. Siering, Digital finance and fintech: current
     research and future research directions, Journal of Business Economics
     87 (5) (2017) 537–580. doi:10.1007/s11573-017-0852-x.

[10] F. Hutter, L. Kotthoff, J. Vanschoren, Automated Machine Learning:
     Methods, Systems, Challenges, Springer, Cham, 2019, accessed 2025-
     12-24. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-05318-5.
     URL https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-05318-5

[11] M. López de Prado, Advances in Financial Machine Learning, John
     Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, NJ, 2018, accessed 2025-12-24.
     URL https://openlibrary.org/books/OL33645013M

[12] Y. Liu, A. Tsyvinski, Risks and returns of cryptocurrency, Review of
     Financial Studies 34 (6) (2020) 2689–2727. doi:10.1093/rfs/hhaa113.

[13] Y. Liu, A. Tsyvinski, X. Wu, Common risk factors in cryptocurrency,
     The Journal of Finance 77 (2) (2022) 1133–1177. doi:10.1111/jofi.1
     3119.

[14] I. Makarov, A. Schoar, Trading and arbitrage in cryptocurrency markets,
     Journal of Financial Economics 135 (2) (2020) 293–319, accessed 2025-
     12-24. doi:10.1016/j.jfineco.2019.07.001.
     URL https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2019.07.001

[15] D. Ackerer, J. Hugonnier, U. Jermann, Perpetual futures pricing, Tech.
     Rep. w32936, National Bureau of Economic Research (2024). doi:
     10.3386/w32936.

[16] W. Gornall, J. M. Rinaldi, Y. Xiao, Perpetual futures and basis risk:
     Evidence from cryptocurrency, SSRN Electronic Journal (2025). doi:
     10.2139/ssrn.5036933.

[17] Q. Ruan, A. Streltsov, Perpetual futures contracts and cryptocurrency
     market quality, SSRN Electronic Journal (2025). doi:10.2139/ssrn.4
     218907.

[18] E. Chen, M. Ma, Z. Nie, Perpetual future contracts in centralized and
     decentralized exchanges: Mechanism and traders’ behavior, Electronic
     Markets 34 (1) (2024) 35. doi:10.1007/s12525-024-00715-1.


                                    49
[19] J.-C. Hung, H.-C. Liu, J. J. Yang, Trading activity and price discovery
     in bitcoin futures markets, Journal of Empirical Finance 62 (2021) 107–
     120. doi:10.1016/j.jempfin.2021.03.001.

[20] A. Shynkevich, Impact of bitcoin futures on the informational efficiency
     of bitcoin spot market, Journal of Futures Markets 41 (1) (2020) 115–
     134. doi:10.1002/fut.22164.

[21] A. Malik, A comparison of machine learning and econometric models
     for pricing perpetual bitcoin futures and their application to algorithmic
     trading, Expert Systems 40 (10) (2023). doi:10.1111/exsy.13414.

[22] M. López de Prado, Seven sins of quantitative investing, The Journal of
     Portfolio Management 45 (1) (2019) 12–25.

[23] J. Snoek, H. Larochelle, R. P. Adams, Practical bayesian optimization of
     machine learning algorithms, in: F. Pereira, C. J. C. Burges, L. Bottou,
     K. Q. Weinberger (Eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing
     Systems, Vol. 25, Curran Associates, Inc., 2012, pp. 2951–2959, accessed
     2025-12-24.
     URL https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2012/hash/053
     11655a15b75fab86956663e1819cd-Abstract.html

[24] D. E. Goldberg, Genetic Algorithms in Search, Optimization, and Ma-
     chine Learning, Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA, 1989.

[25] R. Storn, K. Price, Differential evolution – a simple and efficient heuristic
     for global optimization over continuous spaces, Journal of Global Opti-
     mization 11 (4) (1997) 341–359, accessed 2025-12-24. doi:10.1023/A:
     1008202821328.
     URL https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1008202821328

[26] N. Hansen, The cma evolution strategy: A comparing review, in: To-
     wards a New Evolutionary Computation, Springer, 2006, pp. 75–102,
     accessed 2025-12-24. doi:10.1007/3-540-32494-1_4.
     URL https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-32494-1_4

[27] R. Sullivan, A. Timmermann, H. White, Data-snooping, technical trad-
     ing rule performance, and the bootstrap, The Journal of Finance 54 (5)
     (1999) 1647–1691. doi:10.1111/0022-1082.00163.


                                       50
[28] H. White, A reality check for data snooping, Econometrica 68 (5) (2000)
     1097–1126. doi:10.1111/1468-0262.00152.

[29] P. R. Hansen, A test for superior predictive ability, Journal of Business
     & Economic Statistics 23 (4) (2005) 365–380. doi:10.1198/07350010
     5000000063.

[30] C. R. Harvey, Y. Liu, H. Zhu, . . . and the cross-section of expected
     returns, Review of Financial Studies 29 (1) (2015) 5–68. doi:10.1093/
     rfs/hhv059.

[31] D. H. Bailey, M. López de Prado, The deflated sharpe ratio: Correcting
     for selection bias, backtest overfitting, and non-normality, The Journal
     of Portfolio Management 40 (5) (2014) 94–107, accessed 2025-12-24.
     doi:10.3905/jpm.2014.40.5.094.
     URL https://doi.org/10.3905/jpm.2014.40.5.094

[32] D. H. Bailey, J. M. Borwein, M. López de Prado, Q. J. Zhu, The prob-
     ability of backtest overfitting, The Journal of Computational Finance
     20 (4) (2017) 39–69, accessed 2025-12-24. doi:10.21314/jcf.2016.32
     2.
     URL https://doi.org/10.21314/jcf.2016.322

[33] F. Schär, Decentralized finance: On blockchain- and smart contract-
     based financial markets, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Review
     103 (2) (2021) 153–174, accessed 2025-12-24. doi:10.20955/r.103
     .153-74.
     URL https://doi.org/10.20955/r.103.153-74

[34] H. R. Künsch, The jackknife and the bootstrap for general stationary
     observations, The Annals of Statistics 17 (3) (1989) 1217–1241, accessed
     2025-12-24. doi:10.1214/aos/1176347265.
     URL https://doi.org/10.1214/aos/1176347265




                                     51
