THE JOURNAL OF FINANCE • VOL. LXXI, NO. 1 • FEBRUARY 2016




  Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return
                Predictability?
                       R. DAVID MCLEAN and JEFFREY PONTIFF∗

                                           ABSTRACT
      We study the out-of-sample and post-publication return predictability of 97 vari-
      ables shown to predict cross-sectional stock returns. Portfolio returns are 26% lower
      out-of-sample and 58% lower post-publication. The out-of-sample decline is an up-
      per bound estimate of data mining effects. We estimate a 32% (58%–26%) lower
      return from publication-informed trading. Post-publication declines are greater for
      predictors with higher in-sample returns, and returns are higher for portfolios con-
      centrated in stocks with high idiosyncratic risk and low liquidity. Predictor portfo-
      lios exhibit post-publication increases in correlations with other published-predictor
      portfolios. Our findings suggest that investors learn about mispricing from academic
      publications.




FINANCE RESEARCH HAS UNCOVERED many cross-sectional relations between pre-
determined variables and future stock returns. Beyond their historical insights,
these relations are relevant to the extent that they provide insights into the
future. Whether the typical relation continues outside a study’s original sample
is an open question, the answer to which can shed light on why cross-sectional
return predictability is observed in the first place.1 Although several papers
   ∗ R. David McLean is at DePaul University and Jeffrey Pontiff is at Boston College and is an

unpaid director at a non-profit called the Financial Research Association. We are grateful to the Q
Group, the Dauphine-Amundi Chair in Asset Management, and SSHRC for financial support. We
thank participants at the Financial Research Association’s 2011 early ideas session, Auburn Uni-
versity, Babson College, Bocconi University, Boston College, Brandeis University, CKGSB, Georgia
State University, HBS, HEC Montreal, MIT, Northeastern University, Simon Fraser, University
of Georgia, University of Maryland, University of South Carolina, University of Toronto, Univer-
sity of Wisconsin, Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research Conference, City University
of Hong Kong International Conference, Finance Down Under Conference 2012, Wilfred Lau-
rier, University of Washington Summer Conference, European Finance Association (Copenhagen),
1st Luxembourg Asset Management Conference, Ivey Business School, and Pontificia Universi-
dad Catholica de Chile and Pierluigi Balduzzi, Turan Bali, Brad Barber, Mark Bradshaw, David
Chapman, Shane Corwin, Alex Edmans, Lian Fen, Wayne Ferson, Francesco Franzoni, Xiaohui
Gao, Thomas Gilbert, Robin Greenwood, Bruce Grundy, Cam Harvey, Clifford Holderness, Darren
Kisgen, Owen Lamont, Borja Larrain, Juhani Linnainmaa, Jay Ritter, Ronnie Sadka, Paul Schultz,
Andrei Shleifer, Ken Singleton, Bruno Skolnik, Jeremy Stein, Noah Stoffman, Matti Suominen,
Allan Timmermann, Michela Verado, Artie Woodgate, Jianfeng Yu, William Ziemba, three anony-
mous referees, and an anonymous Associate Editor for helpful comments.
   1 Similar to Mittoo and Thompson’s (1990) study of the size effect, we use a broad set of predictors

to focus on out-of-sample cross-sectional predictability. For an analysis of the performance of
DOI: 10.1111/jofi.12365

                                                  5
6                                The Journal of FinanceR

note whether a specific cross-sectional relation continues out-of-sample, no
study compares in-sample returns, post-sample returns, and post-publication
returns for a large sample of predictors. Moreover, previous studies produce
contradictory messages. As examples, Jegadeesh and Titman (2001) show that
the relative returns to high momentum stocks increased after the publication of
their 1993 paper, whereas Schwert (2003) argues that, since the publication of
the value and size effects, index funds based on these variables fail to generate
alpha.2
   In this paper, we synthesize information for 97 characteristics shown to pre-
dict cross-sectional stock returns in peer-reviewed finance, accounting, and
economics journals. Our goal is to better understand what happens to return
predictability outside a study’s sample period. We compare each predictor’s
returns over three distinct periods: (i) the original study’s sample period,
(ii) the period after the original sample but before publication, and (iii) the
post-publication period. Previous studies attribute cross-sectional return pre-
dictability to statistical biases, rational pricing, and mispricing. By comparing
the return predictability of the three periods, we can better differentiate be-
tween these explanations.

A. Statistical Bias
  If return predictability in published studies results solely from statistical
biases, then predictability should disappear out of sample. We use the term
“statistical biases” to describe a broad array of biases inherent to research.
Fama (1991, p. 1585) addresses this issue when he notes that “With many clever
researchers on both sides of the efficiency fence, rummaging for forecasting
variables, we are sure to find instances of ‘reliable’ return predictability that
are in fact spurious.” To the extent that the results of the studies in our sample
are driven by such biases, we should observe a decline in return predictability
out-of-sample.

B. Rational Expectations Versus Mispricing
 Differences between in-sample and post-publication returns can be deter-
mined by both statistical biases and the extent to which investors learn from

out-of-sample time-series predictability, see LeBaron (2000) and Goyal and Welch (2008). For an
analysis of cross-sectional predictability using international data, see Fama and French (1998),
Rouwenhorst (1998), and McLean, Pontiff, and Watanabe (2009). For an analysis of calendar
effects, see Sullivan, Timmermann, and White (2001).
   2 Lewellen (2014) uses 15 variables to produce a singular rolling cross-sectional return proxy

and shows that it predicts, with decay, next period’s cross section of returns. Haugen and Baker
(1996) and Chordia, Subrahmanyan, and Tong (2013) compare characteristics in two separate
subperiods. Haugen and Baker show that each of their characteristics produces statistically sig-
nificant returns in their second subperiod, whereas Chordia, Subrahmanyan, and Tong show that
none of their characteristics are statistically significant in their second subperiod. Green, Hand,
and Zhang (2013) identify 300 published and unpublished characteristics but they do not estimate
characteristic decay parameters as a function of publication or sample-end dates.
          Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                             7

the publication. Cochrane (1999, p. 71) explains that, if predictability reflects
risk, it is likely to persist “Even if the opportunity is widely publicized, investors
will not change their portfolio decisions, and the relatively high average return
will remain.” Cochrane’s logic follows Muth’s (1961) rational expectations hy-
pothesis, and thus can be broadened to nonrisk models such as Amihud and
Mendelson’s (1986) transaction-based model and Brennan’s (1970) tax-based
model. If return predictability reflects only rational expectations, then pub-
lication will not convey information that induces a rational agent to behave
differently. Thus, once the impact of statistical bias is removed, pre- and post-
publication return predictability should be equal.
   If return predictability reflects mispricing and publication leads sophisti-
cated investors to learn about and trade against the mispricing, then we expect
the returns associated with a predictor should disappear or at least decay af-
ter the paper is published.3 Decay, as opposed to disappearance, will occur
if frictions prevent arbitrage from fully eliminating mispricing. Examples of
such frictions include systematic noise trader risk (Delong et al. (1990)) and
idiosyncratic risk and transaction costs (Pontiff (1996, 2006)). These effects can
be magnified by principal-agent problems between investors and investment
professionals (Shleifer and Vishny (1997)).4


C. Findings
   We conduct our analysis using 97 different predictors from 79 different aca-
demic studies. We use long-short portfolio strategies that simultaneously buy
and sell extreme quintiles that are based on each predictor. The average predic-
tor’s long-short return declines by 26% out-of-sample. This is an upper bound
on the effect of statistical biases, since some traders are likely to learn about
the predictor before publication, and their trading will cause the return decay
to be greater than the pure decay from statistical bias.
   The average predictor’s long-short return shrinks 58% post-publication.
Combining this finding with an estimated statistical bias of 26% implies a
lower bound on the publication effect of about 32%. We can reject the hypoth-
esis that return predictability disappears entirely, and we can also reject the
hypothesis that post-publication return predictability does not change. This
post-publication decline is robust to a general time trend, to time indicators
used by other authors, and to time fixed effects.
   The decay in portfolio returns is larger for predictor portfolios with higher
in-sample returns and higher in-sample t-statistics. We also find that the decay
is larger for predictors that can be constructed with only price and trading data
and therefore are likely to represent violations of weak-form market efficiency.

   3 We do not distinguish between mispricing and “risk-reward deals” since both are inconsistent

with rational expectations. Liu et al. (2014) develop a model of risk-reward deals and learning that
is a framework for our findings.
   4 For evidence of limited arbitrage in short sellers and mutual funds, see Duan, Hu, and McLean

(2009, 2010).
8                                The Journal of FinanceR

Post-publication returns are lower for predictors that are less costly to arbi-
trage, that is predictor portfolios more concentrated in liquid stocks and low
idiosyncratic risk stocks. Our findings are consistent with mispricing account-
ing for some or all of the original return predictability, and investors learning
about this mispricing.
   We further investigate the effects of publication by studying traits that reflect
trading activity. We find that stocks within the predictor portfolios observe
post-publication increases in trading volume, and that the difference in short
interest between stocks in the short and long sides of each portfolio increases
after publication. These findings are consistent with the idea that academic
research draws attention to predictors.5
   Publication also affects the correlations between predictor portfolio returns.
Yet-to-be-published predictor portfolios returns are correlated, and after a
predictor is featured in a publication its portfolio return correlation with
other yet-to-be-published predictor portfolios decreases while its correlation
with already-published predictor portfolio returns increases. One interpreta-
tion of this finding is that some portion of predictor portfolio returns results
from mispricing, and mispricing has a common source. This is why in-sample
predictor portfolios returns are correlated. This interpretation is consistent
with the irrational comovement models proposed in Lee, Shleifer, and Thaler
(1991) and Barberis and Shleifer (2003). Publication could then cause more
arbitrageurs to trade on the predictor, causing predictor portfolios to become
more correlated with already published predictor portfolios that are also pur-
sued by arbitrageurs, and less correlated with yet-to-be-published predictor
portfolios.
   Our findings are related to contemporaneous research that investigates how
the magnitude of sophisticated capital affects anomaly returns (Hanson and
Sundareram (2014), Kokkonen and Suominen (2014), Akbas et al. (2014)). Un-
like these papers, we do not consider proxies for variation in sophisticated
capital levels. Rather, our results suggest that academic publications transmit
information to sophisticated investors.
   The paper is organized as follows. In Section I we describe our research
method. In Section II we describe our anomaly sample and discuss some sum-
mary statistics. Section III presents the main empirical findings. We conclude
in Section IV.


                                  I. Research Method
  We begin by identifying studies that find cross-sectional relations between
observable variables and future stock returns. We do not study time-series pre-
dictability. We limit ourselves to studies in peer-reviewed finance, accounting,
and economics journals in which the null of no return predictability is rejected

   5 Drake, Rees, and Swanson (2011) demonstrate that short interest is more pronounced in the

low-return segment of several characteristic-sorted portfolios. Their study does not estimate the
difference between in- and out-of-sample short interest.
          Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                              9

at the 5% level. We also require that the predicting variable be constructed with
publicly available data. The studies were mostly identified with search engines
such as Econlit by searching for articles in finance and accounting journals
using words such as “cross-section.” Some studies were identified in reference
lists in books or other papers. We also contacted other finance professors and
inquired about predictive variables we may have missed.
   Most studies that we identify demonstrate cross-sectional predictability with
either Fama-MacBeth (1973) slope coefficients or long-short portfolio returns.
Some of the studies demonstrate a univariate relation between the given vari-
able and subsequent returns, whereas other studies include additional control
variables. Some studies that we identify are not truly cross-sectional, but in-
stead present event study evidence that seems to imply a cross-sectional rela-
tion. Since we expect the results of these studies to be useful to investors, we
include them in our analyses.
   Our search process identifies 79 different studies. Based on these studies,
we examine 97 cross-sectional relations. The various predictors and their as-
sociated studies are detailed in the paper’s Internet Appendix.6 We include
all variables that relate to cross-sectional returns, including those with strong
theoretical motivation such as Fama and MacBeth’s (1973) market beta and
Amihud’s (2002) liquidity measure.
   Our goal is not to perfectly replicate the findings in each paper. This is
impossible since CRSP data change over time and papers often omit details
about precise calculations. Moreover, in some cases we are unable to exactly
reconstruct a given predictor. In such cases, we calculate a characteristic that
captures the intent of the study. As an example, Franzoni and Marin (2006)
show that a pension funding variable predicts future stock returns. This vari-
able is no longer covered by Compustat, so with the help of the paper’s au-
thors we use available data from Compustat to construct a similar variable
that we expect to contain much of the same information. As another exam-
ple, Dichev and Piotroski (2001) show that firms that are downgraded by
Moody’s experience negative future abnormal returns. Compustat does not
cover Moody’s ratings but does cover S&P ratings, so we use S&P rating
 downgrades.
   For some characteristics such as momentum, higher characteristic values
are associated with higher returns, while for other characteristics such as size,
higher characteristic values are associated with lower returns. We form long-
short portfolios based on the extreme 20th percentiles of the characteristic. The
long side is the side with the higher returns as documented by the original
publication.
   Sixteen of our predictors are indicator variables. For these cases, if the orig-
inal paper demonstrates higher returns for firms assigned with the indicator,
then these firms are included in the long-side portfolio, and an equal-weighted

  6 The Internet Appendix is available in the online version of the article on the Journal of Finance

website.
10                          The Journal of FinanceR

portfolio of all other stocks is used to form the short-side portfolio. If the orig-
inal paper demonstrates lower returns for indicated firms, then non-indicated
firms form the long-side portfolio and the indicated firms form the short-side
portfolio.
   Three predictors are variables with three discrete values (long, short, and
neutral). For example, Barth and Hutton (2004) develop a strategy of buying
low accrual stocks with increases in analysts’ earnings forecasts, and selling
low accrual stocks with decreases in earnings forecasts. In cases like this, our
long-short portfolio follows the original paper. We provide detailed descriptions
of all 97 predictors in the paper’s Internet Appendix.
   The average correlation across the returns of the 97 predictor portfolios is
0.033. This finding is consistent with Green, Hand, and Zhang (2013), who
report an average correlation of 0.09 among 60 quantitative portfolios. There
are of course both higher and negative correlations among the predictors in our
sample. As we explain below, we explicitly control for such cross-correlations
when computing the standard errors of our test statistics.
   In an earlier version of the paper we also calculate monthly Fama-MacBeth
(1973) slope coefficient estimates using a continuous measure of the character-
istic (e.g., firm size or past returns). As Fama (1976) shows, Fama-MacBeth
(1973) slope coefficients are returns from long-short portfolios with unit net
exposure to the characteristic. We obtain similar findings using both methods,
so for the sake of brevity we only report quintile returns.


               II. Important Dates and Summary Statistics
  We segment periods based on both the end-of-sample date and the publication
date. We do so because these are easily identifiable dates that may be associated
with changes in predictability. The end of the original sample provides a clear
demarcation for estimating statistical bias. The publication date, in contrast,
provides only a proxy for when market participants learn about a predictor. As
we mention above, we assume that more investors know about a predictor after
the publication date as compared to before the publication date. However, some
market participants may not read the paper until years after publication. Post-
publication decay in return predictability may therefore be a slow process. We
are unaware of theories on how long the decay should take or on the functional
form of the decay. Despite the simplicity of our approach, the publication date
generates robust estimates of return decay.
  Table I provides summary statistics for the predictor portfolios that we study.
For the 97 portfolios, the average monthly in-sample return is 0.582%. The av-
erage out-of-sample, pre-publication return is 0.402%, whereas the average
post-publication return is 0.264%. Returns are equal-weighted unless the pri-
mary study presents value-weighted portfolio results as its primary finding,
and the only study in our sample that does this is Ang et al. (2006).
  The average length of time between the end-of-the sample and publication
dates is 56 months. In comparison, the average original in-sample span is 323
          Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                                11

                                              Table I
                                    Summary Statistics
This table reports summary statistics for the predictor portfolios studied in this paper. The returns
are equal-weighted by predictor portfolio, that is, we first estimate the statistic for each predictor
portfolio, and then take an equal-weighted average across the portfolios. The reported standard
deviations are the standard deviations of the predictors’ mean returns. Our sample period ends in
2013.

Number of predictor portfolios                                                                  97

Predictors portfolios with t-statistic > 1.5                                                85 (88%)
Mean publication year                                                                         2000
Median publication year                                                                       2001
Predictors from finance journals                                                            68 (70%)
Predictors from accounting journals                                                         27 (28%)
Predictors from economics journals                                                           2 (2%)
Mean portfolio return in-sample                                                              0.582
Standard deviation of mean in-sample portfolio return                                        0.395
Mean observations in-sample                                                                    323
Mean portfolio return out-of sample                                                          0.402
Standard deviation of mean out-of-sample portfolio return                                    0.651
Mean observations out-of-sample                                                                 56
Mean portfolio return post-publication                                                       0.264
Standard deviation of mean post-publication portfolio return                                 0.516
Mean observations post-publication                                                             156




months, and the average post-publication span is 156 months. Our sample ends
in 2013.
   The publication date is determined by the year and month on the cover of
the journal. We consider two variations. A previous version of this paper con-
siders publication dates based on arrival time stamps at Boston metropolitan
libraries. This variation produced nearly identical results. Another version con-
siders the publication date to be the earlier of the actual publication date and
the first time the paper appears on the SSRN. The average number of months
between the end-of-sample and SSRN dates is 44 months, and we again obtain
the same results.
   Although we include all 97 predictors in our tests, 12 of our predictors pro-
duce portfolio returns with in-sample t-statistics that are less than 1.50. Thus,
a total of 85 ( = 97 – 12) or 88% of the predictors produce t-statistics that
are greater than 1.50. With respect to the 12 predictors that do not reach this
significance level, in some cases the original paper reports event study ab-
normal returns that do not survive in our portfolio sorts. In other cases, we
do not have the same data used by the original authors. Portfolio formation
also contributes to differences in statistical significance. We focus on long-
short quintile returns, while some of the original papers that demonstrate
predictability use Fama-MacBeth (1973) slope coefficients or buy-and-hold
returns.
12                          The Journal of FinanceR

                    III. Empirical Analyses and Results
A. Portfolio Returns Relative to End-of-Sample and Publication Dates
  In this section we formally study the returns of each predictor relative to its
sample-end and publication dates. Our baseline regression model is described
in equation (1):

                  Rit = αi + β1 Post Sample Dummyi,t
                        + β2 Post Publication Dummyi,t + eit .                  (1)


   In equation (1), the dependent variable is the monthly return for predictor i
in month t. The post-sample dummy is equal to one if month t is after the end of
the original sample but still pre-publication, and zero otherwise, whereas the
post-publication dummy is equal to one if the month is post-publication and
zero otherwise. The variable α i captures predictor fixed effects.
   As we mention previously, correlations across predictor portfolios are low,
averaging only 0.033. However, there is variation in the correlations, with some
portfolios being highly correlated and others being uncorrelated. We therefore
compute our standard errors using feasible generalized least squares (FGLS)
under the assumption of contemporaneous cross-correlation between returns.
Clustering on time (as in previous drafts) produces similar results, with slightly
smaller standard errors in most cases.
   The post-sample coefficient, β 1 , estimates the impact of statistical biases on
predictor in-sample performance. This is an upper bound estimate, as it could
be the case that sophisticated traders are aware of the working paper before
publication. The post-publication coefficient, β 2 , estimates both the impact of
statistical biases and the impact of publication. If statistical biases are the
source of in-sample predictability, then the coefficients on both the post-sample
and post-publication dummies should be −0.582, which is the negative of the
average in-sample mean return (reported in Table I). Such a finding would be
consistent with Fama’s (1991) conjecture that much of the return predictability
in academic studies is the outcome of data mining. In contrast, if predictors’
returns are entirely the result of mispricing and arbitrage resulting from pub-
lication corrects all mispricing, then the post-publication coefficient should be
equal to −0.582 and the post-sample dummy should be close to zero. In the re-
maining extreme, if there are no statistical biases and academic papers have no
influence on investors’ actions, then both of the coefficients should equal zero.


B. Predictor Return Dynamics Relative to End-of-Sample and Publication
   Dates
   Table II presents regression estimates of how predictability changes out-
of-sample and post-publication. Column (1) reports the results for our main
specification, which estimates equation (1) on our full sample of 97 predictors.
The post-sample coefficient in this regression is −0.150%, and statistically
            Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                                13

                                               Table II
     Regression of Predictor Portfolio Returns on Post-Sample and
                      Post-Publication Indicators
The regressions test for changes in returns relative to the predictor’s sample-end and publication
dates. The dependent variable is the monthly return to a long-short portfolio that is based on the
extreme quintiles of each predictor. Post-Sample (S) is equal to one if the month is after the sample
period used in the original study and zero otherwise. Post-Publication (P) is equal to one if the
month is after the official publication date and zero otherwise. Mean is the in-sample mean return
of the predictor portfolio during the original sample period. t-statistics are the in-sample t-statistic
of each predictor portfolio. Standard errors (in parentheses) are computed under the assumption
of contemporaneous cross-sectional correlation between panel portfolio residuals. *, **, and ***
denote statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. The bottom three rows
report p-values from tests of whether post-sample and post-publication changes in returns are
statistically different from one another and whether any declines are 100% of the in-sample mean
(the effects disappears entirely).

Variables                            (1)                  (2)                (3)                 (4)

Post-Sample (S)                  −0.150***           −0.180**              0.157              0.067
                                  (0.077)             (0.085)             (0.103)            (0.112)
Post-Publication (P)             −0.337***           −0.387***           −0.002             −0.120
                                  (0.090)             (0.097)             (0.078)            (0.114)
S × Mean                                                                 −0.532***
                                                                          (0.221)
P × Mean                                                                 −0.548***
                                                                          (0.178)
S × t-statistic                                                                             −0.061***
                                                                                             (0.023)
P × t-statistic                                                                             −0.063***
                                                                                             (0.018)
Predictor FE?                       Yes                 Yes                 Yes                 Yes
Observations                      51,851              45,465               51,851             51,944
Predictors (N)                      97                  85                   97                 97
Null : S = P                      0.024               0.021
Null: P = −1 × (mean)             0.000               0.000
Null: S = −1 × (mean)             0.000               0.000




significant. Thus, our best estimate of the post-sample decline is 15.0 bps. The
post-publication coefficient is −0.337, and it is also statistically significant.
These results show that, on average, predictor portfolios are 33.7 bps lower
post-publication compared to before publication. Table I shows that the average
predictor has an in-sample mean return of 58.2 bps per month. Hence, post-
sample and post-publication returns decline relative to the in-sample mean by
26% and 58%, respectively.
  The regression in the second column includes only 85 predictors. It excludes
the 12 predictors that generate t-statistics with values less than 1.5. Exclusion
of these predictors does not change the basic inference reported in column
(1). The post-sample and post-publication coefficients are −0.180 and −0.387,
respectively, in column (2), similar to the results in column (1). The average
in-sample return for the 85 predictors is 0.652, so the post-publication decay
14                                The Journal of FinanceR

in percentage terms is similar if these other 12 predictors are included. The
average in-sample return is larger when we exclude the 12 predictors because
we are excluding the 12 predictors that lack significant in-sample predictability.
   At the bottom of Table II, we report tests of whether the post-publication
coefficient and out-of-sample but pre-publication coefficient are equal. In both
of the regressions described above, the coefficients are significantly different
at the 5% level. This difference tells us that there is an effect associated with
publication that cannot be explained by statistical biases, that should be fully
reflected in the out-of-sample but pre-publication coefficient.
   The bottom of Table II also reports tests of whether predictor portfolio re-
turns disappear entirely post-publication. This test is generated from a linear
restriction that equates the post-publication coefficient to the average sum of
the fixed effects and the intercept.7 This test, along with the t-test on the post-
publication coefficient, allows us to easily reject both nulls, that is, we reject
the null that anomaly returns decay entirely post-publication, and we reject
the null that they do not decay.
   The regression in the third column includes the predictor fixed effects along
with interactions between the in-sample mean return of each predictor and
the out-of-sample and post-publication dummy variables. The interactions test
whether predictor portfolio returns with higher in-sample means decline more
post-publication. We do not include the in-sample mean in the regression by
itself because it does not vary over time and we include predictor fixed effects.
   In column (3), the coefficient on the post-sample dummy is 0.157, whereas
the coefficient on the interaction between the post-sample dummy and the in-
sample mean is −0.532. As we mention above, the average in-sample monthly
return for the 97 portfolios is 0.582% (see Table I), so the overall post-sample
effect is 0.157 + (−0.532 × 0.582) = −0.153, similar to the post-sample coef-
ficient in column (1). The standard deviation of the in-sample mean return is
0.395 (see Table I). Hence, a portfolio with an in-sample mean return that is one
standard deviation more than average has a −0.532 × 0.395 = −0.210 bp de-
cline in post-sample monthly return. This could reflect predictors with larger
in-sample returns having a larger degree of statistical bias. Alternatively, it
could reflect arbitrageurs being more likely to learn about and trade on predic-
tors with higher returns before publication. Similarly, the the post-publication
dummy is −0.002, and the interaction between the post-sample dummy and
in-sample mean is −0.548. This relation is also displayed in Figure 1 (Panel
A), which plots the average in-sample mean for each predictor against its post-
publication decline, and shows that predictors with larger in-sample returns
have greater post-publication declines.
   The final regression in Table II interacts the post-sample and post-
publication dummies with a predictor’s in-sample t-statistic. The average

   7 The expected return of a predictor in-sample is the sum of the regression intercept and the

predictor’s fixed effect. We take the average of these sums, which is equal to the average predictor’s
in-sample return. We then test whether this value minus the coefficient on either publication or
post-sample is equal to zero.
          Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                              15




Figure 1. The relation between in-sample returns and post-publication decline in
returns. Panel A plots the relation between in-sample returns and post-publication declines in
returns. For each predictor, we estimate the mean return to a long-short portfolio that contem-
poraneously buys and sells the extreme quintiles during the sample period of the original study.
We then estimate the mean return for the period after the paper is published through 2013. To
be included in the figure, a predictor’s in-sample return has to generate a t-statistic greater than
1.5; 85 of the 97 predictors that we examine meet this criterion. The predictor also has to have at
least three years of post-publication return data. This excludes 10 of the 85 predictors, resulting
in a sample of 75 predictors. Panel B repeats this exercise, but it plots in-sample t-statistic against
post-publication declines. The returns are reported in percent, e.g., 1.5 is a monthly return of 1.5%.
16                                The Journal of FinanceR




Figure 2. Predictor return dynamics around the sample-end and publication dates.
This figure explores changes in predictability by examining finer post-sample and post-publication
partitions. The figure plots the coefficients from a regression containing dummy variables that
signify the last 12 months of the original sample, the first 12 months out-of sample, and the other
out-of-sample months. In addition, the publication dummy is split into six different variables,
namely, one dummy for each of the first five years post-publication and one dummy for all of the
months that are at least five years after publication. The returns are reported in percent, e.g., 1.5
is a monthly return of 1.5%.


in-sample t-statistic is 3.55 and the standard deviation of the t-statistics is
2.39. Hence, the regression estimates an incremental decline for a characteris-
tic portfolio with a t-statistic that is one standard deviation higher than the av-
erage of −0.146 post-sample and −0.151 post-publication. The post-publication
effect is plotted in Figure 1 (Panel B). The results here are consistent with the
idea that arbitrageurs devote more capital to characteristic portfolios that are
associated with higher in-sample returns. In an untabulated specification we
condition decay on in-sample Sharpe ratios and estimate very similar results.
   Previous versions of the paper consider whether decay is related to the cu-
mulative number of academic citations to the publication that introduces the
portfolio returns associated with the predictor. After controlling for the publi-
cation date, this measure has little incremental value in explaining decay.


C. A Closer Look at Predictor Return Dynamics around the End-of-Sample
   and Publication Dates
  Figure 2 further considers changes in predictability by examining finer post-
sample and post-publication partitions. The figure plots the coefficients from
a regression of predictor returns on dummy variables for the last 12 months
of the original sample, the first 12 months out-of sample, and the remaining
        Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?             17

out-of-sample months. In addition, the publication dummy is split into six vari-
ables, namely, a dummy variable for each of the first five years post-publication
and a dummy variable for all of the months that are at least five years after pub-
lication. Some caution is needed in interpreting this figure. Although the esti-
mates in this figure are interesting, statistical power is lower from partitioning
the results, and theory does not guide us regarding the appropriate partitions.
   The publication process often takes years. This gives unscrupulous re-
searchers an opportunity to choose their sample-ends so as to report stronger
results. Figure 2 shows that the coefficient on the dummy for the last 12 months
of the original sample is positive, which means that the last 12 months of the
sample have higher returns than the other in-sample months, which could be
consistent with researchers ending their samples opportunistically. However,
the coefficient on the dummy for the first 12 months post-sample is virtually
zero, which indicates that the first 12 months post-sample have on average the
same returns as the in-sample months. If authors were selectively choosing
their sample periods, then this coefficient should be negative.
   Figure 2 shows that, after the first 12 months out-of-sample, returns are
lower as compared to in-sample. After the first 12 months post-sample and
during the remaining out-of-sample months but before publication, returns are
more than 20 basis points lower. Returns remain at this level the first two
years post-publication, and then decay further: In the third year we estimate
a decay of 40.8 bps; in the fourth year decay is 43.3 bps; and in the fifth year
decay is 20.5 bps. After the fifth year post-publication predictors returns are
on average 33.9 bps lower as compared to in-sample.
   One might suggest that we examine post-publication returns as a function
of the predictor’s persistence (i.e., how often the portfolio turns over). Initial
decay may be muted if new capital flows into portfolios that are determined by
a persistent predictor. For example, new flows into high book-to-market stocks
might cause a temporary increase in the returns of book-to-market portfolios,
whereas portfolios based on less persistent predictors, such as last month’s
stock return, would not generate such an effect. We consider this possibility in
an earlier version of the paper. We find some evidence that portfolio returns
to more persistent predictors decay less following publication, but the effect is
not statistically significant.


D. Controlling for Time Trends and Persistence
  It could be the case that the dissemination of academic research has no effect
on return predictability, and that our end-of-sample and publication coefficients
reflect a time trend or a trend that proxies for lower costs of corrective trading.
For example, anomalies’ returns may drop post-publication if anomalies reflect
mispricing and declining trading costs have made arbitrage less costly (see
Goldstein et al. (2009) and Anand et al. (2012)). Consistent with this idea,
Chordia, Subrahmanyam, and Tong (2013) show that the returns of the 12
anomalies decline after 1993, which they attribute to an increase in hedge
funds and lower trading costs.
18                          The Journal of FinanceR

   To examine the possibility that our results reflect a time effect and not a
publication effect, we construct a time variable that is equal to 1/100 in January
1926 and increases by 1/100 each month in our sample. Tale III presents the
results. In column (1), we estimate a regression of monthly portfolio returns
on the time variable and predictor fixed effects. The time variable produces a
negative slope coefficient that is significant at the 1% level, which is consistent
with the idea that portfolio returns have declined over time.
   In column (2), we estimate the effect of a dummy variable that is equal to one
if the year is after 1993 and zero otherwise. We use this specification because,
as we mention above, Chordia, Subrahmanyam, and Tong (2013) show that 12
predictors have lower returns after 1993. The post-1993 coefficient is negative
but insignificant in our sample.
   In column (3), we relate decay to a time trend, the post-1993 indicator, and the
post-sample and post-publication indicator variables. The time trend variable
is still negative and significant, however the post-1993 dummy variable is
now positive and statistically significant. The post-publication coefficient is
−0.362 and statistically significant, similar to the estimate reported in our
main specification in Table II. Thus, adding a time trend and a 1993 break has
little impact on post-publication return decay.
   An alternative way to control for time effects is to include time fixed ef-
fects. Time fixed effects demean each monthly anomaly return by the average
anomaly return in the same month. Hence, including time fixed effects allows
for parameter estimation that is free from all forms of time-series decay. Col-
umn (4) of Table III reports an estimation that includes time fixed effects. The
estimated coefficients are very close to those in Table II. In particular, predictor
returns are 17.9 bps lower out-of-sample and 31.0 bps lower post-publication,
both significant at the 5% level. Based on the average in-sample return of
58.2 bps, this specification implies a sizeable 53% drop in post-publication pre-
dictability after all time effects have been removed.
   In the final two regressions in Table III, we test whether predictor returns
are persistent, and whether controlling for persistence changes the publica-
tion effect. Recent work by Moskowitz, Ooi, and Pedersen (2013) and Asness,
Moskowitz, and Pedersen (2013) finds broad momentum across asset classes
and correlation of momentum returns across classes, whereas Grundy and
Martin (2001) fail to find significant momentum in the Fama-French factors.
We include the predictor’s prior-month’s return and the sum of its returns over
the last 12 months’ returns in columns (5) and (6), respectively. Both of the
lagged return coefficients are positive and significant, which is broadly consis-
tent with Moskowitz, Ooi, and Pedersen (2013). The post-publication coefficient
remains significant in each of these regressions, suggesting a post-publication
decline of about 25 to 30 bps once persistence is controlled for.


E. Do Returns and Post-Publication Decay Vary across Predictor Types?
  In this section, we group predictors into four broad categories and exam-
ine variations in pre-publication returns, post-publication returns, and the
            Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                           19

                                              Table III
               Time Trends and Persistence in Predictor Returns
The regressions reported in this table test for time trends and persistence in predictor returns.
Post-Sample (S) is equal to one if the month is after the sample period used in the original
study and zero otherwise. Post-Publication (P) is equal to one if the month is after the official
publication date and zero otherwise. Time is the number of months divided by 100 post-January
1926. Post-1993 is equal to one if the year is greater than 1993 and zero otherwise. 1-Month Return
and 12-Month Return are the predictor’s return from the last month and the cumulative return
over the last 12 months. Standard errors (in parentheses) are computed under the assumption
of contemporaneous cross-sectional correlation between panel portfolio residuals. *, **, and ***
denote statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

Variable                 (1)          (2)          (3)          (4)           (5)           (6)

Time                 −0.069***                  −0.069***
                      (0.011)                    (0.026)
Post-1993                          −0.120         0.303***
                                    (0.074)      (0.118)
Post-Sample                                     −0.190**     −0.179**     −0.132*       −0.128
                                                 (0.081)      (0.080)      (0.076)       (0.078)
Post-Publication                                −0.362***    −0.310**     −0.295***     −0.258***
                                                 (0.124)      (0.122)      (0.089)       (0.093)
1-Month Return                                                              0.114***
                                                                           (0.015)
12-Month Return                                                                           0.020***
                                                                                         (0.004)
Observations           51,851       51,851        51,851      51,851        51,754        50,687
Char. FE?               Yes          Yes           Yes         Yes           Yes            Yes
Time FE?                 No           No            No         Yes            No            No




post-publication return decay. We designate the predictor categories as (i)
Event, (ii) Market, (iii) Valuation, and (iv) Fundamentals.
   Event predictors are based on events within the firm, external events that
affect the firm, and changes in firm performance. Examples of event predic-
tors include share issues, changes in financial analyst recommendations, and
unexpected increases in R&D spending. Market predictors are predictors that
can be constructed using only financial data, such as volume, prices, returns,
and shares outstanding. Momentum, long-term reversal, and market value of
equity are included in our sample of market predictors. Valuation predictors
are ratios, where one of the numbers reflects a market value and the other
reflects fundamentals. Examples of valuation predictors include sales-to-price
and book-to-market. Finally, fundamental predictors are constructed from fi-
nancial statement data and analysts’ expectations of financial statement data.
Debt, taxes, and accruals (all scaled by total assets) are examples of fundamen-
tal predictors.
   As we mention previously, the average correlation among the predictor port-
folio returns is 0.033, whereas the median is 0.018. The correlation is not higher
within the groups. Valuation predictor portfolios’ returns have the highest
within-group correlation, averaging 0.058, whereas market predictor portfolios
20                                 The Journal of FinanceR

                                              Table IV
             Predictor Returns across Different Predictor Types
This table tests whether predictor returns and changes in returns post-publication vary across
types of predictors. To conduct this exercise, we split our predictors into four groups: (i) event, (ii)
market, (iii) valuation, and (iv) fundamentals. We regress monthly predictor returns on dummy
variables that signify each predictor group. Each column reports how each predictor type differs
from the other three types. The bottom two rows test whether post-publication returns for each
predictor type are different than those of the other three types. Standard errors (in parentheses)
are computed under the assumption of contemporaneous cross-sectional correlation between panel
portfolio residuals. *, **, and *** denote statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels,
respectively.

Variable                           (1)                 (2)                  (3)                  (4)

Post-Publication (P)          −0.208***            −0.316***            −0.310***           −0.301***
                               (0.059)              (0.097)              (0.080)             (0.089)
Market                          0.304***
                               (0.079)
P × Market                    −0.244
                               (0.169)
Event                                              −0.098**
                                                    (0.046)
P × Event                                            0.105
                                                    (0.091)
Valuation                                                               −0.056
                                                                         (0.063)
P × Valuation                                                             0.186
                                                                         (0.131)
Fundamental                                                                                 −0.201***
                                                                                             (0.045)
P × Fundamental                                                                               0.025
                                                                                             (0.089)
Constant                        0.482***             0.606***             0.585***            0.630***
                               (0.036)              (0.052)              (0.000)             (0.053)
Observations                    51,851               51,851               51,851              51,851
Predictors                        97                   97                   97                  97
Type + (P × Type)               0.060                0.007                0.121             −0.176
p-value                         0.210                0.922                0.256               0.012




have the lowest, averaging 0.021. The reason for this is that there can be both
very high and very low return correlations within each group. As an example,
the highest correlation in our sample is 0.933, which is between the returns
of the price and size portfolios. The lowest correlation is −0.895, which is
between the returns of the price and 52-week high portfolios. Similarly, the
momentum and price portfolios’ returns have a correlation of −0.715. All of
these predictors are market predictors. As in the previous tables, we estimate
our standard errors via FGLS, which accounts for contemporaneous cross-
correlations.
  We formally test for differences between the four predictor portfolio groups in
Table IV. Using all data, monthly returns are regressed on a dummy variable
          Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                              21

representing one of the four predictor types, a post-publication dummy, and the
interaction between the post-publication and the predictor type dummy:

 Ri,t = αi, + β1 Post Publication Dummyi + β2 Predictor T ype Dummyi
         + β3 Post Publication Dummyi × Predictor T ype Dummyi + eit .                             (2)

   The coefficient on the Predictor Type Dummy, β 2 , estimates whether the in-
sample average returns of a group are different from those of the other groups.
The results show that, compared to the other categories of predictors, market-
based predictors have the highest pre-publication returns, while fundamental
predictors have the lowest pre-publication returns.
   The coefficient on the interaction, β 3 , tests whether post-publication declines
vary across predictor groups. The decline for the market-based predictor portfo-
lio returns is largest, although it is not significantly different from the declines
for the other predictors. Valuation predictor returns have the smallest declines
post-publication.
   Differences in post-publication expected returns are given by the sum of the
type coefficient and the interaction coefficients β 2 + β 3 . The sums and their
associated p-values are reported in the bottom two rows of Table IV. Despite
the high pre-publication returns of market-based predictors, post-publication
market-based predictor returns are not significantly higher than those of the
non-market-based predictors. This result is consistent with the results in
Table II, which shows that predictors with higher in-sample returns have larger
declines in returns post-publication. The bottom two rows also show that post-
publication returns are significantly lower for fundamental predictors, so this
pre-publication difference in returns is persistent post-publication.


F. Costly Arbitrage
  The results above are consistent with the idea that publication attracts arbi-
trageurs, which results in lower returns post-publication. As we explain in the
introduction, Pontiff (1996, 2006) and Shleifer and Vishny (1997) suggest that
costs associated with arbitrage can prevent arbitrageurs from fully eliminating
mispricing. By this logic, predictor portfolios concentrated in stocks that are
costlier to arbitrage (e.g., smaller stocks, less liquid stocks, stocks with more
idiosyncratic risk) should decline less post-publication. If predictor returns are
the outcome of rational asset pricing, then the post-publication decline should
not be related to arbitrage costs.8
  Previous papers in the costly arbitrage literature relate arbitrage costs to dif-
ferences in returns across stocks within a predictor portfolio (see Pontiff (2006),
Duan, Hu, and McLean (2010), and McLean (2010)). In contrast, we estimate

   8 Our exercise recognizes that, if returns reflect mispricing, then, in equilibrium, portfolios that

incur higher costs will deliver higher returns. This approach deviates from an earlier literature,
such as Lesmond, Schill, and Zhou (2004) and Korajczyk and Sadka (2004), who question whether
costs eliminate the excess return of a particular portfolio.
22                               The Journal of FinanceR

the relation between arbitrage costs and expected returns across (instead of
within) portfolios. Another difference between our tests and the previous liter-
ature is that previous studies assume that the informed trader had knowledge
of the predictor before (and after) the publication date. Our tests consider the
possibility that publication informs arbitrageurs, which affects the decay in
return predictability post-publication.
   Our costly arbitrage variables include three transaction cost variables—
size, bid-ask spreads, and dollar volume—and two holding cost variables—
idiosyncratic risk and a dividend-payer dummy. We also create a costly arbi-
trage index, which is the first principal component of the five costly arbitrage
variables.
   Large stocks, stocks with high dollar volume, and stocks with low spreads
are more liquid and therefore less costly to arbitrage. Hence, we expect long-
short returns to be lower in predictor portfolios concentrated in such stocks.
Firm size is measured as the market value of equity. Average monthly spreads
are estimated from daily high and low prices using the method of Corwin and
Schultz (2012). Dollar volume is the number of shares traded during the past
month multiplied by the month-end stock price.
   Idiosyncratic risk limits the amount that an investor will invest in a mis-
priced stock (Treynor and Black (1973) and Pontiff (1996, 2006)), and thus
returns should be higher in predictor portfolios concentrated in high idiosyn-
cratic risk stocks. We compute monthly idiosyncratic risk by regressing daily
returns on the 12 value-weighted industry portfolios from Ken French’s web-
site. We estimate a regression for each stock using the last 24 months of daily
data. For each day, we square that day’s residuals and, to correct for autocorre-
lation, add two times the product of that day’s and the previous day’s residuals.
The monthly idiosyncratic risk measure is created by cumulating the daily sum
of residual products for a given month. If the industry factor model regression
contains less than 30 observations, the stock is not assigned an idiosyncratic
risk measure in that month.
   Pontiff (1996, 2006) explains that dividends mitigate holding costs since they
decrease the effective duration of the position. The intuition is that dividends
reduce the future amount of capital devoted to arbitrage, thus reducing the
cumulative holding costs.9 We use a dummy variable equal to one if a firm
paid a dividend and zero otherwise. We expect returns to be lower for predictor
portfolios concentrated in stocks that pay dividends.
   The costly arbitrage index is based on the first principal component of the
five costly arbitrage variables. A higher value of the index is associated with
lower arbitrage costs and therefore lower expected portfolio returns. The index
has positive correlations with the size, dividends, and dollar volume variables,
and negative correlations with the spreads and idiosyncratic risk variables.


   9 This result assumes that the level of the mispricing is unaffected by the dividend payout. The

result also holds for the case in which the level of the mispricing is influenced by mispricing but
the relative mispricing is not. For proof, see the Appendix in Pontiff (2006).
        Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?              23

  We estimate the arbitrage cost of each predictor portfolio as follows. First, for
each month, we compute the average cross-sectional ranking for a trait (e.g.,
size or idiosyncratic risk) among all of the stocks in CRSP. Each stock-month
observation is therefore assigned a ranking between zero and one. Next, for
each month, we estimate the average rank of the stocks that are in either the
long or the short sides of each predictor portfolio. This creates a time series
of monthly rank-averages for each trait. We then take the average of each
time-series to estimate a single costly arbitrage variable for each predictor.
We only use in-sample months to create the costly arbitrage variables, as it
could be the case that trading caused by publication affects the costly arbitrage
variables. We then estimate the following regression,

       Ri,t = αi, + β1 Post Publication Dummyi,t + β2 Arbitrage Costi
              + β3 Post Publication Dummyi,t × Arbitrage Costi + eit ,           (3)

where the dependent variable is a predictor’s monthly return. We report the
results in Table V. The results largely support the notion that some sophis-
ticated traders exert price pressure pre-publication, but the price pressure is
tempered by arbitrage costs. If some sophisticated traders implement predictor
strategies pre-publication, then portfolios with higher arbitrage costs should
have higher pre-publication returns. This effect is given by the slopes on the
non-interacted arbitrage cost variables, β 2 . Five of the costly arbitrage vari-
ables (including the index) have slopes with the expected sign, and all five
are statistically significant. The dollar volume variable produces a slope in the
opposite direction—predictor portfolios concentrated in stocks with high dollar
volume of trading tend to have higher in-sample returns, although this effect
is not statistically significant.
   Post-publication knowledge of a predictor should be widespread, and we thus
expect portfolios that are easier to arbitrage to have lower post-publication
returns. The sum of the costly arbitrage coefficient, β 2 , plus the coefficient
on the interaction between the post-publication dummy and the arbitrage cost
variable, β 3 , should therefore reflect higher expected returns for predictors that
are more costly to arbitrage. The sum of these coefficients and their associated
p-values are presented in the last two rows of Table V. All six of these sums
have the correct expected sign, and five of the six are statistically significant.
   For brevity, we do not report a specification that simultaneously includes
all five of the primary costly arbitrage variables and all five of the interac-
tions. Caution is needed in interpreting such results due to high correlations
between the right-hand-side variables. Regarding in-sample returns, idiosyn-
cratic risk is the only costly arbitrage variable that commands a statistically
significant slope with the expected sign. Post-publication, returns are lower
for predictor portfolios that contain stocks with more idiosyncratic risk. The
post-publication effects for spreads and size have the expected signs but are
insignificant. Idiosyncratic risk’s post-publication p-value is 0.000. These find-
ings are consistent with Pontiff ’s (2006, p. 35) review of the literature that
24                                 The Journal of FinanceR

                                               Table V
        Costly Arbitrage and the Persistence of Predictor Returns
These regressions test whether arbitrage costs are associated with declines in predictability post-
publication. The dependent variable is a predictor portfolio’s monthly long-short return. The in-
dependent variables reflect various traits of the stocks in each predictor portfolio. To measure the
strength of the traits of the stocks within a portfolio, we first rank all of the stocks in CRSP on the
trait (e.g., size or spreads), assigning each stock a value between zero and one based on its rank.
We then take the average rank of all of the stocks in the portfolio for that month. Finally, we take
an average of the predictor’s monthly trait averages, using all of the months that are in-sample.
Hence, in the size regression reported in the first column, the independent variable is the average
market value rank of the stocks in the predictor’s portfolio during the in-sample period for the
predictor. Average monthly Spreads are the average monthly bid-ast Spreads estimated from daily
high and low prices using the method of Corwin and Schultz (2012). Dollar Volume is shares traded
multiplied by stock price. Idiosyncratic Risk is daily stock return variance, which is orthogonal to
the market and industry portfolios. Dividends is a dummy equal to one if the firm paid a dividend
during the last year and zero otherwise. Index is the first principal component of the other five
measures. Standard errors (in parentheses) are computed under the assumption of contemporane-
ous cross-sectional correlation between panel portfolio residuals. *, **, and *** denote statistical
significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. The bottom two rows test whether the
sum of the costly arbitrage variable (CA) plus the interaction between the publication dummy and
the costly arbitrage variable (P × CA) is statistically different from zero.

Variables              (1)           (2)           (3)            (4)            (5)            (6)

Post-Pub. (P)      −0.190         −0.139         0.215        −0.242         −0.321         −0.264**
                    (0.274)        (0.235)      (0.230)        (0.273)        (0.211)        (0.078)
P × Size           −0.138
                    (0.459)
Size               −1.064**
                    (0.236)
P × Spreads                       −0.301
                                   (0.603)
Spreads                             1.228**
                                   (0.252)
P × Dol.Vol.                                   −1.059*
                                                (0.500)
Dol. Vol.                                        0.215
                                                (0.308)
P × Idio. Risk                                                −0.047
                                                               (0.554)
Idio. Risk                                                      2.064***
                                                               (0.330)
P × Div.                                                                     −0.321
                                                                              (0.211)
Div.                                                                         −0.526***
                                                                              (0.145)
P × Index                                                                                   −0.009
                                                                                             (0.019)
Index                                                                                       −0.056***
                                                                                             (0.011)
Constant             1.145***       0.146*       0.476***     −0.469***        0.855***       0.565***
                    (0.130)        (0.174)      (0.144)        (0.171)        (0.097)        (0.000)
Observations         51,851         51,851       51,851         51,851         51,851         51,851
CA + (P × CA)      −1.202           0.927      −0.844           2.017        −0.847         −0.065
p-value              0.003          0.096        0.000          0.000          0.144          0.000
        Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?             25

leads him to conclude that “idiosyncratic risk is the single largest cost faced by
arbitrageurs.”


G. Post-Publication Trading Activity in Predictor Portfolios
   If academic publication provides market participants with information, then
informed trading activity should affect not only prices, but also other indicators
of trading. We therefore test whether trading volume, dollar trading volume,
variance, and short interest increase in predictor portfolios after publication.
To do so, we re-estimate the regression described in equation (1), but replace
monthly stock returns with a monthly measure of one of the traits.
   Trading volume is measured as shares traded, whereas dollar volume is
measured as shares traded multiplied by price. Variance is the monthly stock
return squared. We compute the average value of each variable among the
stocks that enter either the long or the short side of the predictor portfolio each
month, and test whether the means change post-publication. We use the logs of
these variables as the dependent variables in our regressions. Short interest is
measured as shares shorted scaled by shares outstanding. We measure the dif-
ference in short interest between the short and long sides of each portfolio each
month, and use the difference as the dependent variable in our regressions. If
publication draws short sellers to predictors, then this relative shorting mea-
sure should increase post-publication. Previous studies show that all of these
variables increase over time during our sample period, so we include time fixed
effects in all but the short interest specification, which measures the difference
between the long and short sides in each cross-section.
   We report the results in Table VI. The results show that trading volume and
dollar volume are significantly higher during the period that is post-sample but
pre-publication, while variance is significantly lower. Hence, there appears to
be an increase in trading among predictor portfolio stocks even before a paper
is published, suggesting that the information content of papers may get to some
investors before the paper is published.
   The post-publication coefficients show that trading volume and dollar volume
are significantly higher in predictor portfolios after publication. The dependent
variables are logs, so the coefficients show that post-publication trading vol-
ume and dollar volume increase by 18.7% and 9.7%, respectively. Variance, in
contrast, declines by 6.5% post-publication. Lower volatility could reflect less
noise trading (Shiller (1981) and Pontiff (1997)).
   The final column reports results from the short interest regression. Recall
that the short interest variable is the short interest on the short side minus
the short interest on the long side. The coefficients in this regression are re-
ported in percent (the dependent variable is multiplied by 100). If investors
recognize that predictor portfolio stocks are mispriced, then there should be
more shorting on the short side than on the long side. The average difference
in short interest between the short and long sides of the characteristic portfo-
lios in-sample is 0.143% (not in tables). The mean and median levels of short
interest in our sample (1976 to 2013) are 3.45% and 0.77%, respectively, so this
26                                  The Journal of FinanceR

                                              Table VI
         Trading Activity Dynamics in Predictor Portfolio Stocks
This regression models the dynamics of the traits of stocks in predictor portfolios, relative to the
predictor’s original sample period and the publication date. We perform monthly ranks based on
turnover, dollar value of trading volume, and stock return variance. Trading Volume is measured as
shares traded, whereas Dollar Volume is measured as shares traded multiplied by price. Variance
is the monthly stock return squared. For each predictor portfolio, we compute the average of
each variable among the stocks that enter either the long or the short side of the characteristic
portfolio each month, and test whether it increases out-of-sample and post-publication. For short
interest (shares shorted scaled by shares outstanding), we take the average short interest in the
long quintile for each characteristic, and subtract from it the average short interest in the short
quintile. The short interest findings are reported in percent (the dependent variable is multiplied
by 100). Post-Sample is equal to 1 if the month is after the end of the sample but pre-publication.
Post-Sample (S) is equal to one if the month is after the sample period used in the original study
and zero otherwise. Post-Publication (P) is equal to one if the month is after the official publication
date and zero otherwise. Standard errors (in parentheses) are computed under the assumption
of contemporaneous cross-sectional correlation between panel portfolio residuals. *, **, and ***
denote statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

Variables                Variance     Trading volume      Dollar volume     Short-long short interest

Post-Sample (S)         −0.054***         0.092***            0.066***               0.166***
                         (0.007)         (0.001)             (0.007)                (0.014)
Post-Publication (P)    −0.065***         0.187***            0.097***               0.315***
                         (0.008          (0.013)             (0.007)                (0.013)
Observations              52,632           52,632              52,632                 41,026
Time FE?                    Yes             Yes                 Yes                     No
Predictor FE?               Yes             Yes                 Yes                    Yes
Null: S = P               0.156           0.000               0.000                  0.000




difference is economically meaningful. This result suggests that some prac-
titioners know prior to publication that stocks in the predictor portfolios are
mispriced and trade accordingly. This could be because practitioners are trad-
ing on the predictor, or it could reflect practitioners trading on other strategies
that happen to be correlated with the predictor. As an example, if short sellers
evaluate firms individually with fundamental analysis, their resulting posi-
tions may be stocks with low book-to-market, high accruals, high stock returns
over the last few years, etc., even though short sellers are not choosing stocks
based on these traits.
   Post-sample, relative shorting increases by 0.166%, and, post-publication,
relative shorting increases by 0.315%. Economically, the post-publication ef-
fect represents a three-fold increase in shorting post-publication relative to
in-sample. So, although some practitioners may know about these strategies
before publication, the results here suggest that publication makes the effects
more widely known. These short interest results are consistent with Hanson
and Sunderam (2014), who use short interest as a proxy for sophisticated in-
vestors and find that increases in short interest are associated with lower
future returns in value and momentum stocks.
            Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                          27

                                             Table VII
      Regressions of Predictor Returns on Return Indices of Other
                               Predictors
This regression models the returns of each predictor relative to the returns of other predictors.
The dependent variable is a predictor’s monthly long-short return. Post-Publication (P) is equal to
one if the month is after the official publication date and zero otherwise. In-Sample Index Return
is the equal-weighted return of all other unpublished predictor portfolios. Post-Publication Index
Return is an equal-weighted return of all other published predictor portfolios. Standard errors (in
parentheses) are computed under the assumption of contemporaneous cross-sectional correlation
between panel portfolio residuals. *, **, and *** denote statistical significance at the 10%, 5%, and
1% levels, respectively.

Variables                                                                               Coefficients

In-Sample Index Returns                                                                    0.748***
                                                                                          (0.027)
Post-Publication Index Return                                                            −0.008
                                                                                          (0.004)
P × In-Sample Index Returns                                                              −0.674***
                                                                                          (0.033)
P × Post-Publication Index Return                                                          0.652***
                                                                                          (0.045)
Publication (P)                                                                          −0.081
                                                                                          (0.042)
Constant                                                                                   0.144***
                                                                                          (0.019)
Observations                                                                               42,975
Predictors                                                                                   97




H. The Effects of Publication on Correlations among Characteristic Portfolios
   In this section, we study the effects that publication has on correlations
between characteristic portfolios. If predictor returns reflect mispricing and
if mispricing has a common source (e.g., investor sentiment), then we might
expect in-sample predictor portfolios to be correlated with other in-sample
predictor portfolios. This effect is suggested in Lee, Shleifer, and Thaler (1991),
Barberis and Shleifer (2003), and Barberis, Shleifer, and Wurgler (2005). If
publication causes arbitrageurs to trade on a predictor, then publication could
also cause a predictor portfolio to become more highly correlated with other
published predictors and less correlated with unpublished predictors because
of fund flows or other factors common to arbitrage portfolios.
   In Table VII, we regress predictor portfolio returns on the returns of an equal-
weighted index of all other predictor portfolios that are pre-publication, and
a second equal-weighted index of all of the other predictor portfolios that are
post-publication. We include a dummy variable that indicates whether the
predictor is post-publication, and interactions between this dummy variable
and the pre-publication and post-publication indices.
   The results show that pre-publication predictor returns are significantly
related to the returns of other pre-publication predictor portfolios. The
28                          The Journal of FinanceR

coefficient (or beta) on the pre-publication predictor portfolio is 0.748 and sta-
tistically significant. In contrast, the β for a pre-publication portfolio on other
post-publication portfolios is −0.008 and insignificant. Hence, the returns of
unpublished predictors are correlated with the returns of other unpublished
predictors, but not with the returns of published predictors.
   The interactions show that, once a predictor is published, its returns are less
correlated with the returns of other pre-publication predictor portfolios and
more correlated with the returns of other post-publication predictor portfolios.
The coefficient for an interaction between the post-publication dummy and the
return of the portfolio consisting of in-sample predictors is −0.653 and highly
significant. These results show that, once a predictor is published, the beta
of its returns with the returns of other yet-to-be-published predictors’ returns
virtually disappears, as the overall coefficient decreases to 0.748 – 0.674 =
0.074. The coefficient on the interaction between the post-publication dummy
and the returns of the other post-publication predictors is 0.652 and significant
at the 1% level, suggesting that there is a significant relation between the
portfolio returns of published predictors and other published predictors.


                                IV. Conclusion
   This paper studies 97 characteristics shown to explain cross-sectional stock
returns in peer-reviewed finance, accounting, and economics journals. Using
portfolios based on the extreme quintiles for each predictor, we compare each
predictor’s return predictability over three distinct periods: (i) the original
study’s sample period, (ii) the period outside the original sample period but
before publication, and (iii) the post-publication period.
   We use the period during which a predictor is outside of its original sample
but still pre-publication to estimate an upper bound on the effect of statistical
biases. We estimate the effect of statistical bias to be about 26%. This is an
upper bound because some investors could learn about a predictor while the
study is still a working paper. The average predictor’s return declines by 58%
post-publication. We attribute this post-publication effect both to statistical bi-
ases and to the price impact of sophisticated traders. Combining this finding
with an estimated statistical bias of 26% implies a publication effect of 32%.
Our estimate of post-publication decay in predictor returns is statistically sig-
nificant relative to both the null of no post-publication decay and to the null
that post-publication returns decay entirely.
   Several of our findings support the idea that some or all of the original
cross-sectional predictability is the result of mispricing. First, the returns of
predictor portfolios with larger in-sample means decline more post-publication,
and strategies concentrated in stocks that are more costly to arbitrage have
higher expected returns post-publication. Arbitrageurs should pursue trading
strategies with the highest after-cost returns, so these results are consistent
with the idea that publication attracts sophisticated investors. Second, we
find that turnover, dollar volume, and especially short interest increase sig-
nificantly in predictor portfolios post-publication. This result is also consistent
          Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                          29

with the idea that academic research draws trading attention to the predictors.
Finally, we find that, before a predictor is featured in an academic publication,
its returns are correlated with the returns of other yet-to-be-published predic-
tors, but its returns are not correlated with those of published predictors. This
finding is consistent with behavioral finance models of comovement. After pub-
lication, a predictor’s correlation with yet-to-be-published predictors is close
to zero, and its correlation with already published predictors becomes positive
significant.

               Initial submission: May 16, 2013; Final version received: May 21, 2015
                                     Editor: Kenneth Singleton



                                       REFERENCES
Akbas, Ferhat, Will J. Armstrong, Sorin Sorescu, and Aanidhar Subrahmanyam, 2014, Time vary-
    ing market efficiency in the cross-section of expected stock returns, Working paper, UCLA.
Ang, Andrew, Robert J. Hodrick, Yuhang Xing, and Xiaoyan Zhang, 2006, The cross-section of
    volatility and expected returns, Journal of Finance 61, 259–299.
Amihud, Yakov, 2002, Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects, Journal
    of Financial Markets 5, 31–56.
Amihud, Yakov, and Haim Mendelson, 1986, Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread, Journal of
    Financial Economics 17, 223–249.
Anand, Amber, Paul Irvine, Andy Puckett, and Kumar Venkataraman, 2012, Performance of in-
    stitutional trading desks: An analysis of persistence in trading costs,” Review of Financial
    Studies 25, 557–698.
Asness, Clifford S., Tobias J. Moskowitz, and Lasse H. Pedersen, 2013, Value and momentum
    everywhere, Journal of Finance 68, 929–985.
Bali, Turan G., and Nusret Cakici, 2008, Idiosyncratic volatility and the cross section of expected
    returns, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 43, 29–58.
Barberis, Nicholas, and Andrei Shleifer, 2003, Style investing, Journal of Financial Economics 68,
    161–199.
Barberis, Nicholas, Andrei Shleifer, and Jeffrey Wurgler, 2005, Comovement, Journal of Financial
    Economics 75, 283–317.
Brennan, Michael J., 1970, Taxes, market valuation, and corporate financial policy, National Tax
    Journal 23, 417–427.
Chordia, Tarun, Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, and Qing Tong, 2013, Trends in the cross-section of
    expected stock returns, Working paper, Emory University.
Cochrane, John H., 1999, Portfolio advice for a multifactor world, Economic Perspectives: Federal
    Reserve Bank of Chicago 23, 59–78.
Corwin, Shane A., and Paul Schultz, 2012, A simple way to estimate bid-ask spreads from daily
    high and low prices, Journal of Finance 67, 719–759.
De Long, J Bradford., Andrei Shleifer, Lourence H. Summers, and Robert J. Waldmann, 1990,
    Noise trader risk in financial markets, Journal of Political Economy 98, 703–738.
Dichev, Ilia D., 1998, Is the risk of bankruptcy a systematic risk?, Journal of Finance 53, 1131–
    1148.
Dichev, Ilia D., and Joseph D. Piotroski, 2001, The long-run stock returns following bond ratings
    changes, Journal of Finance 56, 173–203.
Drake, Michael S., Lynn Rees, and Edward P. Swanson, 2011, Should investors follow the prophets
    or the bears? Evidence on the use of public information by analysts and short sellers, Account-
    ing Review 82, 101–130.
Duan, Ying, Gang Hu, and R. David McLean, 2009, When is stock-picking likely to be successful?
    Evidence from mutual funds, Financial Analysts Journal 65, 55–65.
30                                The Journal of FinanceR

Duan, Ying, Gang Hu, and R. David McLean, 2010, Costly arbitrage and idiosyncratic risk: Evi-
    dence from short sellers, Journal of Financial Intermediation 19, 564–579.
Fama, Eugene F., 1976, Foundations of Finance (Basic Books, New York).
Fama, Eugene F., 1991, Efficient capital markets: II, Journal of Finance 46, 1575–1617.
Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French, 1992, The cross-section of expected stock returns,
    Journal of Finance 47, 427–465.
Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French, 1998, Value versus growth: The international evidence,
    Journal of Finance 53, 1975–1999.
Fama, Eugene F., and James D. MacBeth, 1973, Risk, return, and equilibrium: Empirical tests,
    Journal of Political Economy 81, 607–636.
Franzoni, Francesco, and Jose M. Marin, 2006, Pension plan funding and stock market efficiency,
    Journal of Finance 61, 921–956.
Goldstein, Michael, Paul Irvine, Eugene Kandel, and Zvi Weiner, 2009, Brokerage commissions
    and institutional trading patterns, Review of Financial Studies 22, 5175–5212.
Goyal, Amit, and Ivo Welch, 2008, A comprehensive look at the empirical performance of equity
    premium prediction, Review of Financial Studies 21, 1455–1508.
Green, Jeremiah, John R. M. Hand, and X. Frank Zhang, 2013, The supraview of return predictive
    signals, Review of Accounting Studies 18, 692–730.
Greenwood, Robin, 2008, Excess comovement of stock returns: Evidence from cross-sectional vari-
    ation in Nikkei 225 weights, Review of Financial Studies 21, 1153–1186.
Grundy, Bruce D., and Spencer J. Martin, 2001, Understanding the nature of the risks and the
    source of the rewards to momentum investing, Review of Financial Studies 14, 29–78.
Hanson, Samuel G., and Adi Sunderam, 2014, The growth and limits of arbitrage: Evidence from
    short interest, Review of Financial Studies 27, 1238–1286.
Harvey, Campbell R., Yan Liu, and Heqing Zhu, 2013, . . . and the cross-section of expected returns,
    Working paper, Duke University.
Haugen, Robert A., and Nardin L. Baker, 1996, Commonality in the determinants of expected stock
    returns, Journal of Financial Economics 41, 401–439.
Heckman, James, 1979, Sample selection bias as a specification error, Econometrica 47, 153–161.
Hedges, Larry V., 1992, Modeling publication selection effects in meta-analysis, Statistical Science
    7, 246–255.
Hutton, Amy, and Mary Barth, 2004, Analyst earnings forecast revisions and the pricing of accru-
    als, Review of Accounting Studies 9, 59–96.
Jegadeesh, Narasimhan, and Sheridan Titman, 2001, Profitability of momentum strategies: An
    evaluation of alternative explanations, Journal of Finance 56, 699–720.
Kokkonen, Joni, and Matti Suominen, 2014, Hedge funds and stock market efficiency, Working
    paper, Aalto University.
Korajczyk, Robert, and Ronnie Sadka, 2004, Are momentum profits robust to trading costs, Journal
    of Finance 59, 1039–1082.
Leamer, Edward E., 1978, Specification Searches: Ad Hoc Inference with Nonexperimental Data
    (John Wiley & Sons, New York).
LeBaron, Blake, 2000, The stability of moving average technical trading rules on the Dow Jones
    Index, Derivatives Use, Trading and Regulation 5, 324–338.
Lee, Charles, Andrei Shleifer, and Richard Thaler, 1991, Investor sentiment and the closed-end
    fund puzzle, Journal of Finance 46, 75–109.
Lesmond, David A., Michael J. Schill, and Chunsheng Zhou, 2004, The illusory nature of momen-
    tum profits, Journal of Financial Economics 71, 349–380.
Lewellen, Johnathan, 2014, The cross-section of expected returns, Critical Finance Review 4, 1–44.
Liu, Qi, Lei Lu, Bo Sun, and Hongjun Yan, 2014, A model of anomaly discovery, Working paper,
    Yale School of Management.
Lo, Andrew, and Craig MacKinlay, 1990, Data-snooping biases in tests of financial asset pricing
    models, Review of Financial Studies 3, 431–467.
McLean, R. David, 2010, Idiosyncratic risk, long-term reversal, and momentum, Journal of Finan-
    cial and Quantitative Analysis, 45, 883–906.
          Does Academic Research Destroy Stock Return Predictability?                           31

McLean, R. David, Jeffrey Pontiff, and Akiko Watanabe, 2009, Share issuance and cross-sectional
    returns: International evidence, Journal of Financial Economics 94, 1–17.
Michaely, Roni, Richard Thaler, and Kent L. Womack, 1995, Price reactions to dividend initiations
    and omissions: Overreaction or drift?, Journal of Finance 50, 573–608.
Mittoo, Usha, and Rex Thompson, 1990, Do capital markets learn from financial economists?,
    Working paper, Southern Methodist University.
Moskowitz, Tobias, Yao Hua Ooi, and Lasse H. Pedersen, 2013, Time series momentum, Journal
    of Financial Economics 104, 228–250.
Muth, John F., 1961, Rational expectations and the theory of price movements, Econometrica 29,
    315–335.
Pontiff, Jeffrey, 1996, Costly arbitrage: Evidence from closed-end funds, Quarterly Journal of
    Economics 111, 1135–1151.
Pontiff, Jeffrey, 1997, Excess volatility and closed-end funds, American Economic Review 87, 155–
    169.
Pontiff, Jeffrey, 2006, Costly arbitrage and the myth of idiosyncratic risk, Journal of Accounting
    and Economics 42, 35–52.
Rouwenhorst, K. Geert, 1998, International momentum strategies, Journal of Finance 53, 267–284.
Schwert, G. William, 2003, Anomalies and market efficiency, in George M. Constantinides, Milton
    Harris, and René Stulz eds.: Handbook of the Economics of Finance (Elsevier Science B.V.,
    Amsterdam).
Shiller, Robert, 1981, Do stock prices move too much to be justified by subsequent changes in
    dividends, American Economic Review 71, 421–436.
Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert W. Vishny, 1997, The limits to arbitrage, Journal of Finance 52, 35–55.
Sullivan, Ryan, Alan Tinmerman, and Halbert White, 2001, Dangers of data mining: The case of
    calendar effects in stock returns, Journal of Econometrics 105, 249–286.
Treynor, Jack, and Fischer Black, 1973, How to use security analysis to improve portfolio selection,
    Journal of Business 46, 66–86.


                                Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this
article at the publisher’s website:
Appendix S1: Internet Appendix.
32   The Journal of FinanceR
